EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0100
(First Reader)

Introduced by: Councilmembers Parker and Bullock
Cosponsored by: Councilmembers Dorsey, Blanchard, and Conway and President Cohen
Introduced and read first time: September 29, 2025
Assigned to: Education, Youth, and Older Adults Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Baltimore
Children and Youth Fund, Baltimore City Public School System, Youth Commission, Office of
the Comptroller

A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2  Children and Youth Fund – Updates
3 FOR the purpose of updating the process and procedures by which the Fund may disperse grants;
4 altering the composition of the Board of Directors; requiring a certain report; defining certain
5 terms; and generally relating to the administration of the Children and Youth Fund.
6 BY authority of
7 Article I - General Provisions
8 Section 13(e)
9 Baltimore City Charter
10 (1996 Edition)
11 BY repealing and re-ordaining, with amendments,
12 Article 5 - Finance, Property and Procurement
13 Sections 9-1, 9-2, 9-4, 9-5, 9-6, 9-9, and 9-10
14 Baltimore City Code
15 (Edition 2000)
16 BY repealing and re-ordaining, without amendments,
17 Article 5 - Finance, Property, and Procurement
18 Sections 9-3, and 9-8
19 Baltimore City Code
20 (Edition 2000)
21 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That the
22 Laws of Baltimore City read as follows:
dlr25-0103(3)~1st/15Oct25
Art 5/cc25-0100~1st Reader/rf:hn
Council Bill 25-0100
1 Baltimore City Code
2 Article 5.  Finance, Property, and Procurement
3 Subtitle 9.  Children and Youth Fund
4 § 9-1.  Definitions.
5 (a)  In general.
6 In this subtitle, the following terms have the meanings indicated.
7 (b)  Board.
8 “Board” means the Board of Directors of the fiscal agent.
9 (c)  Fiscal agent.
10 “Fiscal agent” means the entity designated by § 9-4(a) of this subtitle to administer the
11 Fund and this subtitle.
12 (d) Fund.
13 “Fund” means the Children and Youth Fund established by City Charter Article I, § 13
14 {“Children and Youth Fund”}.
15 (E) GRANT.
16 “GRANT” MEANS FUNDS, REGARDLESS OF SOURCE, THAT ARE CONTROLLED BY THE FUND
17 AND ALLOCATED FROM THE FUND TO A GRANTEE FOR A SPECIFIC PURPOSE.
18 (F) GRANTEE.
19 “GRANTEE” MEANS A LEGAL ENTITY TO WHICH THE FUND MAKES A GRANT.
20 § 9-2.  Uses of Fund.
21 (a)  In general.
22 The Fund may be used only for the purposes generally described in City Charter Article I,
23 § 13(a).
24 (b)  Inclusions.
25 Allowed uses for the Fund include:
26 (1)  direct grants to program and service providers;
27 (2)  administrative costs to operate the Fund; and
dlr25-0103(3)~1st/15Oct25
Art 5/cc25-0100~1st Reader/rf:hn - 2 -
Council Bill 25-0100
1 (3) capacity-building efforts to strengthen [Fund administration or] the ability of
2 providers to successfully and sustainably offer services to Baltimore’s youth.
3 § 9-3.  Purpose.
4 The fiscal agent shall be a community-centered grant-making institution that fosters and
5 promotes:
6 (1) racial equity;
7 (2) inter-generational leadership;
8 (3) community ownership; and
9 (4) collective decision-making.
10 § 9-4.  Fiscal agent.
11 (a)  Designation.
12 The fiscal agent for the Fund is the Baltimore Children and Youth Fund, Inc.
13 (b)  General powers and duties.
14 The fiscal agent [must:] SHALL:
15 (1) identify specific programs and services to be funded by the Fund; [and]
16 (2) allocate the available funds among the programs and services identified for
17 [funding.] FUNDING ACCORDING TO THE GRANT PROCESS AND PROCEDURES
18 ENUMERATED IN PARAGRAPH (3) OF THIS SUBSECTION;
19 (3) ESTABLISH A STANDARDIZED GRANT PROCESS AND PROCEDURES TO BE FOLLOWED BY ALL
20 GRANTEES, AS DESCRIBED IN SUBSECTION (D) OF THIS SECTION; AND
21 (4) RECEIVE REGULAR FISCAL AND PROGRAM REPORTS FROM ALL GRANTEES.
22 (C) GRANT ELIGIBILITY - LIMITATIONS.
23 AN ORGANIZATION IS NOT ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE A GRANT FROM THE FUND IF:
24 (1)  THE ORGANIZATION EMPLOYS:
25 (I) A CURRENT EMPLOYEE OF THE FUND;
26 (II) A MEMBER OR OFFICER OF THE FUND’S BOARD; OR
27 (III) A FAMILY MEMBER OF A CURRENT EMPLOYEE, BOARD MEMBER, OR
28 OFFICER OF THE FUND; OR
dlr25-0103(3)~1st/15Oct25
Art 5/cc25-0100~1st Reader/rf:hn - 3 -
Council Bill 25-0100
1 (2) THE ORGANIZATION’S BOARD INCLUDES:
2 (I) A CURRENT EMPLOYEE OF THE FUND;
3 (II) A MEMBER OR OFFICER OF THE FUND’S BOARD; OR
4 (III) A FAMILY MEMBER OF A CURRENT EMPLOYEE, BOARD MEMBER, OR
5 OFFICER OF THE FUND.
6 (D) [(c)]  Identifying programs and services for funding.
7 (1) As it identifies specific programs and services to be funded by the Fund, the fiscal
8 agent must select programs and services that:
9 (i) are active in Baltimore City;
10 (ii) are credible with and accountable to youth and the local communities they
11 are proposing to serve;
12 (iii) have an element of youth-centered programming; and
13 (iv) can demonstrate how they are designed to improve outcomes for young
14 people.
15 (2) The fiscal agent may also use any additional factors listed in City Charter Article I,
16 § 13(a) to identify specific programs and services to be funded by the Fund so long as
17 the additional factors are made publically available to applicants for funding at the
18 time that applications are requested.
19 (3) Beginning in Fiscal Year [2022] 2027 and continuing every 3 years thereafter, the
20 fiscal agent [shall] SHALL:
21 (I) conduct a community-wide needs assessment to assist the Board in
22 determining grant-making [areas.] AREAS; AND
23 (II) WITHIN 30 DAYS OF COMPLETING THE NEEDS ASSESSMENT, SUBMIT THE
24 ASSESSMENT TO THE BOARD OF ESTIMATES AND THE CITY COUNCIL.
25 (E) GRANT PROCEDURE AND PROCESSES.
26 THE GRANT PROCEDURE AND PROCESSES ESTABLISHED BY THE FISCAL AGENT SHALL
27 INCLUDE:
28 (1) CREATING A UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR ALL GRANT OPPORTUNITIES;
29 (2) PUBLISHING ON THE FUND’S WEBSITE THE METHODS BY WHICH THE FUND SHALL
30 EVALUATE AN APPLICATION AND SELECT A GRANTEE;
31 (3) ORGANIZING AND CONDUCTING A COMMUNITY REVIEW OF ALL GRANT
32 APPLICATIONS DURING THE APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS;
dlr25-0103(3)~1st/15Oct25
Art 5/cc25-0100~1st Reader/rf:hn - 4 -
Council Bill 25-0100
1 (4) MAKING AVAILABLE TO GRANT APPLICANTS FEEDBACK FROM THE COMMUNITY
2 REVIEW AND APPLICATION EVALUATION PROCESSES; AND
3 (5) RECEIVING REGULAR FISCAL AND PROGRAM REPORTS FROM ALL GRANTEES.
4 (F) GRANTEE REPORTING - FREQUENCY.
5 (1) IN GENERAL.
6 A GRANTEE SHALL SUBMIT THE REPORT REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION (E)(5) ON A
7 MONTHLY BASIS.
8 (2) EXCEPTION.
9 IF A GRANTEE HAS BEEN IN FULL COMPLIANCE WITH REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND
10 OTHER GRANTEE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR NO FEWER THAN 12 MONTHS, THE
11 FISCAL AGENT MAY ADJUST THE FREQUENCY OF THE REPORTING REQUIREMENT TO NO
12 LESS THAN A QUARTERLY BASIS, ON THE CONDITION THAT THE GRANTEE REMAINS IN
13 FULL COMPLIANCE.
14 (G) PERFORMANCE AUDIT.
15 BEGINNING IN FISCAL YEAR 2027 AND CONTINUING EVERY 3 YEARS THEREAFTER, THE
16 FISCAL AGENT SHALL PARTICIPATE IN A PERFORMANCE AUDIT CONDUCTED BY THE OFFICE
17 OF THE BALTIMORE CITY COMPTROLLER.
18 § 9-5.  Board of directors.
19 (a)  In general.
20 The fiscal agent shall be governed by and administered by a Board of Directors.
21 (b)  Number and appointment.
22 (1)  The number of voting members of the full Board may not be less than [9,] 13
23 excluding vacancies, and no more than [20.] 21.
24 (2)  The Board may increase or decrease its membership, within the limits specified in
25 this subsection, in its bylaws.
26 (3) The Board members shall be appointed and serve the terms prescribed by the Board’s
27 bylaws.
28 (c)  Composition.
29 (1)  Ex-officio members.
30 (i)  Of the voting members of the Board:
dlr25-0103(3)~1st/15Oct25
Art 5/cc25-0100~1st Reader/rf:hn - 5 -
Council Bill 25-0100
1 (A) 1 shall be the Director of the Mayor’s Office of Children and Family
2  Success or the Director’s designee; [and]
3 (B) 1 shall be the City Council President or a MEMBER OF THE City COUNCIL
4 [Councilmember] designated by the City Council [President.] PRESIDENT;
5 (C) 1 SHALL BE A MEMBER OF THE BALTIMORE CITY YOUTH COMMISSION, AS
6 DESIGNATED BY THE CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT; AND
7 (D) 1 SHALL BE THE CHAIR OF THE BOARD OF SCHOOL COMMISSIONERS FOR
8  THE CITY OF BALTIMORE OR THE CHAIR’S DESIGNEE.
9 (ii)  Of the non-voting members of the Board:
10 (A) 1 shall be the City Solicitor or the City Solicitor’s designee; and
11 (B) 1 shall be the Director of Finance or the Director’s designee.
12 (2)  Diversity.
13 (i)  In general.
14 (A) The Board shall reflect [a] THE diverse economic, social, GEOGRAPHIC, and
15  racial [mix.] DEMOGRAPHICS OF THE CITY, AS REFLECTED IN THE MOST
16  RECENTLY AVAILABLE BALTIMORE CITY PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM STUDENT
17  ENROLLMENT DATA.
18 (B) THE BOARD SHALL INCLUDE REPRESENTATION FROM AT LEAST HALF OF THE
19  DISTRICTS OF THE BALTIMORE CITY COUNCIL.
20 (ii)  Youth participation.
21 (A) In this subparagraph, “youth” means an individual between the ages of 14 and
22 25, inclusive.
23 (B) [Except as provided in sub-subparagraph (C), at least one-third] AT LEAST
24 ONE QUARTER of the Board shall consist of youth members.
25 [(C) The Board of Estimates may waive the requirement in sub-subparagraph (B)
26 if the Board of Estimates finds that the Fund’s Board has taken reasonable and
27 diligent efforts to comply with that requirement and that those efforts have
28 failed.]
29 (d)  Bylaws.
30 (1)  The Board must adopt bylaws for the administration of the fiscal agent.  However,
31 those bylaws may not be inconsistent with the terms of this subtitle or of City Charter
32 Article I, § 13 {“Children and Youth Fund”}.
dlr25-0103(3)~1st/15Oct25
Art 5/cc25-0100~1st Reader/rf:hn - 6 -
Council Bill 25-0100
1 (2) The initial bylaws required by this subsection must be approved by the Board of
2 Estimates before taking effect.
3 (3)  Subsequent amendments to the initial bylaws must be filed with the Board of
4 Estimates before taking effect.
5 (e)  Board of Directors approval required.
6 No funds may be disbursed from the Fund without the prior approval of the Board of
7 Directors.
8 (f)  Staff.
9 The Board may employ staff to carry out the fiscal agent’s day-to-day operations.
10 § 9-6.  Annual financial plan.
11 (a)  In general.
12 Subject to the requirements of this section, PRIOR TO MAY 1 OF EACH YEAR, the Board
13 shall adopt an annual financial plan, based on the City’s fiscal year, [consisting of at least
14 a budget and an amount to be disbursed from the Fund during that year.] THAT INCLUDES:
15 (1) A BUDGET;
16 (2) AN AMOUNT TO BE DISBURSED FROM THE FUND TO GRANTEES DURING THE COMING
17 FISCAL YEAR;
18 (3) THE BALANCE OF THE FUND, INCLUDING MONEY HELD IN CITY AND FUND
19 ACCOUNTS, AS OF THE MOST RECENT QUARTER;
20 (4) THE AMOUNT OF MONEY THE FUND RECEIVED FROM THE PROPERTY TAX
21 ASSESSMENT IN THE LAST FISCAL YEAR;
22 (5) THE RESULTS OF THE MOST RECENT FINANCIAL AUDIT CONDUCTED BY AN
23 INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY; AND
24 (6)  AN UPDATED PLAN AND PROGRESS REPORT ON THE DISBURSEMENT OF THE MULTI-
25 YEAR BALANCE OF THE FUND.
26 (b)  Fund allocations; Limitations.
27 (1)  Limitations on use.
28 (i)  For the purposes of this paragraph, “public engagement” may include:
29 (A)  staffing needs for community outreach;
30 (B)  space, supplies, and personnel for community information sessions; OR
dlr25-0103(3)~1st/15Oct25
Art 5/cc25-0100~1st Reader/rf:hn - 7 -
Council Bill 25-0100
1 (C)  materials for education, marketing, and promotion of fund-related
2 [efforts; or] EFFORTS.
3 [(D)  facilitation and execution of community participatory processes for grant
4 making.]
5 (ii)  In its financial plan, the Board may allocate from the Fund’s balance:
6 (A) up to [5%] 2% for public engagement; [and]
7 (B) up to [15%] 18% for staff and other costs to administer the [Fund.] FUND,
8 INCLUDING FACILITATION AND EXECUTION OF COMMUNITY PARTICIPATORY
9 PROCESSES FOR GRANT MAKING; AND
10 (C) UP TO 15% FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO GRANTEES REGARDING
11 ADMINISTERING GRANT FUNDS AND COMPLYING WITH GRANT
12 REQUIREMENTS.
13 (2)  Remainder to be disbursed.
14 (I) The Board [must] SHALL allocate the remainder of the Fund’s balance among the
15 programs and services identified under [§ 9-4(c)] § 9-4(D) of this subtitle, with an
16 emphasis on programs or services operating in, or meant to assist young people
17 from, the communities in Baltimore City most impacted by high poverty.
18 (II) THE REMAINDER OF THE FUND’S BALANCE SHALL BE ALLOCATED ACCORDING TO
19 THE PROCESSES ESTABLISHED IN § 9-4 OF THIS SUBTITLE AND IN ACCORDANCE
20 WITH PARAGRAPH (3) OF THIS SUBSECTION.
21 (3) GRANT AMOUNTS - LIMITATIONS.
22 (I) GRANT FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES MADE AVAILABLE THE DISCRETION OF THE
23 PRESIDENT OF THE FUND MAY NOT EXCEED AN AMOUNT THAT IS GREATER THAN
24 10% OF THE TOTAL GRANT FUNDS DISBURSED IN THE SAME FISCAL YEAR.
25 (II) THE SIZE OF A GRANT MADE TO A SINGLE GRANTEE IN A FISCAL YEAR MAY NOT
26 EXCEED 100% OF THE EXPENDITURES OF THAT GRANTEE FROM THE HIGHER OF:
27 (A) THE PREVIOUS FISCAL YEAR; OR
28 (B) THE AVERAGE OF THE PAST 3 FISCAL YEARS.
29 (III) THE SIZE OF A GRANT MAY NOT EXCEED 20% OF THE TOTAL FUNDS DISBURSED BY
30  THE FUND IN ANY FISCAL YEAR.
31 (c)  Public hearing and comment on financial plan.
32 Before adopting any financial plan required by this section, the Board shall arrange for a
33 public hearing on the proposed plan.  Notice of the hearing must be published on the
34 fiscal agent’s website for at least 3 consecutive weeks.
dlr25-0103(3)~1st/15Oct25
Art 5/cc25-0100~1st Reader/rf:hn - 8 -
Council Bill 25-0100
1 (d)  Board of Estimates filing required.
2 [After] WITHIN 10 DAYS OF adopting a financial plan, the Board shall file the plan with
3 the Board of Estimates.
4 § 9-7.  {Reserved}
5 § 9-8.  Annual review; Dissolution of board.
6 (a)  Public hearings.
7 No later than March 31 of each year, a relevant committee of the City Council shall hold
8 1 or more public hearings to evaluate the activities of the fiscal agent and its
9 disbursements.
10 (b) Petition for dissolution.
11 (1)  If after conducting a public hearing and hearing testimonial evidence, the City
12 Council finds evidence of misappropriation of funds, malfeasance, or violation of law
13 in connection with the administration of the Fund, the City Council may, by a three-
14 fifths vote of its members, refer a petition to the Board of Estimates to dissolve the
15 fiscal agent’s Board.
16 (2)  On receipt of a petition described in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the Board of
17 Estimates shall consider and vote on that petition as soon as practicable.
18 § 9-9.  Rules and regulations.
19 Subject to Title 4 {“Administrative Procedure Act – Regulations”} of the City General
20 Provisions Article, the Director of Finance must adopt rules and regulations to carry out this
21 subtitle including:
22 (i) a schedule for dispersing the Fund each year; and
23 (ii) procedures for transferring money from the Fund to either the [interim] fiscal agent
24 or directly to service and program providers designated by the [interim] fiscal agent.
25 § 9-10.  Annual [report.] REPORTS.
26 (A) BOARD.
27 No later than June 30 of each year, the Board shall prepare and submit a report to the
28 Mayor and City Council [detailing the activities and the impact of the Fund.] THAT SHALL
29 INCLUDE:
30 (1) A DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ACTIVITIES AND IMPACT OF THE FUND;
31 (2) THE COMPOSITION AND DEMOGRAPHICS OF THE BOARD, INCLUDING THE NUMBER
32 OF YOUTH MEMBERS ON THE BOARD AND THE GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY OF THE
33 MEMBERS;
dlr25-0103(3)~1st/15Oct25
Art 5/cc25-0100~1st Reader/rf:hn - 9 -
Council Bill 25-0100
1 (3) INFORMATION ABOUT THE FUND’S GRANTEES, INCLUDING:
2 (I) THE GRANTEE’S NAME AND ADDRESS;
3 (II) THE PROGRAMMATIC INTENT OF THE GRANTEE;
4 (III) THE GEOGRAPHIC AREA SERVED BY THE GRANTEE;
5 (IV) THE SIZE OF THE GRANT RECEIVED BY THE GRANTEE;
6 (V) THE NUMBER OF YEARS OF FUNDING RECEIVED BY THE GRANTEE;
7 (VI) THE GRANTEE’S RECORD OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE FUNDS REPORTING
8 REQUIREMENTS AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF ANY GRANTS
9 RECEIVED; AND
10 (VII) A SUMMARY OF THE OUTCOMES THAT THE GRANTEE ACHIEVED USING
11   MONEY FROM THE FUND; AND
12 (4) THE RESULTS OF THE MOST RECENTLY COMPLETED AUDIT OF THE FUND.
13 (B) DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
14 THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE SHALL ANNUALLY PROVIDE A REPORT TO THE MAYOR AND
15 CITY COUNCIL THAT INCLUDES:
16 (1)  THE DATE AND AMOUNT OF THE SCHEDULED DISBURSEMENTS OF THE FUND IN THE
17 PAST FISCAL YEAR;
18 (2) THE DATE OF THE PAST FISCAL YEAR’S TRANSFERS FROM THE FUND TO EITHER THE
19 FISCAL AGENT OR DIRECTLY TO GRANTEES; AND
20 (3) THE FUND’S BALANCE PRIOR TO AND FOLLOWING THE DATES OF ANY
21 DISBURSEMENT OR TRANSFER.
22 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the 30th day
23 after the date it is enacted.
dlr25-0103(3)~1st/15Oct25
Art 5/cc25-0100~1st Reader/rf:hn - 10 -
