EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0106
(First Reader)

Introduced by: The Council President
At the request of: The Administration (Department of Finance)
Introduced and read first time: October 20, 2025
Assigned to: Budget and Appropriations Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Fire
Department

A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2  FOR the purpose of providing a Supplementary General Fund Operating Appropriation in the
3 amount of $38,520,093 to the Fire Department – Service 602 (Fire Suppression and Emergency
4 Rescue), to provide funding to balance the Fire Department’s Fiscal Year 2025 budget to cover a
5 deficit caused by overtime, staffing costs, and contractual EMS services; and providing for a
6 special effective date.
7 BY authority of
8 Article VI - Board of Estimates
9 Section 8(b)(2)(iii) and (c)
10 Baltimore City Charter
11 (1996 Edition)
12 Recitals
13 The revenue appropriated by this Ordinance represents $38,520,093 in excess of the revenue
14 relied on by the Board of Estimates in determining the tax levy required to balance the budget for
15 Fiscal Year 2025.
16 This additional revenue could not have been reasonably anticipated when the Ordinance of
17 Estimates for Fiscal Year 2025 was formulated.
18 This appropriation is made necessary by a material change in circumstances since the
19 Ordinance of Estimates for Fiscal Year 2025 was formulated or is for a new program that could
20 not have been reasonably anticipated when that Ordinance of Estimates was formulated.
21 On October 15, 2025, the Board of Estimates recommended this appropriation to the City
22 Council.
dlr25-0461(1)~1st/21Oct25
suppapp3/cc25-0106~1st Reader/rf:hn
Council Bill 25-0106
1 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That
2 $38,520,093 shall be made available to the Fire Department – Service 602 (Fire Suppression and
3 Emergency Rescue) as a Supplementary General Fund Operating Appropriation for Fiscal Year
4 2025, to provide funding to balance the Fire Department’s Fiscal Year 2025 budget to cover a
5 deficit caused by overtime, staffing costs, and contractual EMS services.  The source of revenue
6 for this appropriation is General Fund assigned Fund Balance in excess of the amount from this
7 source that was relied on by the Board of Estimates in determining the tax levy required to
8 balance the budget for Fiscal Year 2025.
9 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the date it is
10 enacted.
dlr25-0461(1)~1st/21Oct25
suppapp3/cc25-0106~1st Reader/rf:hn - 2 -
