EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0113
(First Reader)

Introduced by: The Council President
At the request of: The Administration (Department of Finance)
Introduced and read first time: October 20, 2025
Assigned to: Budget and Appropriations Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Department of
Transportation

A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2  Supplementary General Fund Operating Appropriation –
3 Department of Transportation – $4,457,580
4 FOR the purpose of providing a Supplementary General Fund Operating Appropriation in the
5 amount of $4,457,580 to the Department of Transportation – Service 688 (Snow and Ice
6 Control), to provide funding to balance the Department of Transportation’s Fiscal Year 2025
7 budget for a deficit caused by snow removal costs; and providing for a special effective date.
8 BY authority of
9 Article VI - Board of Estimates
10 Section 8(b)(2)(iii) and (c)
11 Baltimore City Charter
12 (1996 Edition)
13 Recitals
14 The revenue appropriated by this Ordinance represents $4,457,580 in excess of the revenue
15 relied on by the Board of Estimates in determining the tax levy required to balance the budget for
16 Fiscal Year 2025.
17 This additional revenue could not have been reasonably anticipated when the Ordinance of
18 Estimates for Fiscal Year 2025 was formulated.
19 This appropriation is made necessary by a material change in circumstances since the
20 Ordinance of Estimates for Fiscal Year 2025 was formulated or is for a new program that could
21 not have been reasonably anticipated when that Ordinance of Estimates was formulated.
22 On October 15, 2025, the Board of Estimates recommended this appropriation to the City
23 Council.
dlr25-0460(1)~1st/21Oct25
suppapp3/cc25-0113~1st Reader/rf:hn
Council Bill 25-0113
1 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That
2 $4,457,580 shall be made available to the Department of Transportation – Service 688 (Snow
3 and Ice Control) as a Supplementary General Fund Operating Appropriation for Fiscal Year
4 2025, to provide funding to balance the Department of Transportation’s Fiscal Year 2025 budget
5 for a deficit caused by snow removal costs.  The source of revenue for this appropriation is
6 General Fund assigned Fund Balance in excess of the amount from this source that was relied on
7 by the Board of Estimates in determining the tax levy required to balance the budget for Fiscal
8 Year 2025.
9 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the date it is
10 enacted.
dlr25-0460(1)~1st/21Oct25
suppapp3/cc25-0113~1st Reader/rf:hn - 2 -
