EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0036
(First Reader)

Introduced by:  Councilmember Porter
Cosponsored by: Councilmembers Conway, Middleton, Torrence, Gray, Blanchard, Jones,
Ramos, Dorsey, Bullock and President Cohen
Introduced and read first time: March 10, 2025
Assigned to: Budget and Appropriations Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Office of the
Comptroller

A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2 Property Taxes – Baltimore City Payment in Lieu of Taxes Task Force
3 FOR the purpose of establishing the Baltimore City Payment in Lieu of Taxes Task Force;
4 providing for the membership, staffing, compensation, and procedures of the Task Force;
5 establishing the duties of the Task Force; requiring a certain annual report; defining certain
6 terms; and generally relating to the Baltimore City Payment in Lieu of Taxes Task Force.
7 BY adding
8 Article 28 - Taxes
9 Sections 13-1 through 13-7, to be under the new subtitle designation,
10 “Subtitle 13.  Payment in Lieu of Taxes Task Force”
11 Baltimore City Code
12 (Edition 2000)
13 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That the
14 Laws of Baltimore City read as follows:
15 Baltimore City Code
16 Article 28.  Taxes
17 Division II: Property Tax
18 SUBTITLE 13.  PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES TASK FORCE
19 § 13-1.  DEFINITIONS.
20 (A) IN GENERAL.
21 IN THIS SUBTITLE, THE FOLLOWING TERMS HAVE THE MEANINGS INDICATED.
dlr24-0140(5)~1st/11Mar25
Art28/cc25-0036~1st Reader/PP:rf:ad
Council Bill 25-0036
1 (B) AMI.
2 “AMI” MEANS THE AREA MEDIAN INCOME FOR THE METROPOLITAN REGION THAT
3 ENCOMPASSES BALTIMORE CITY, AS PUBLISHED AND ANNUALLY UPDATED BY THE UNITED
4 STATES DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT.
5 (C) ENABLING LAW.
6  “ENABLING LAW” MEANS § 7-501 OF THE STATE TAX – PROPERTY ARTICLE.
7 (D) PARTICIPATING INSTITUTION.
8 “PARTICIPATING INSTITUTION” MEANS A CORPORATE ENTITY THAT IS NEGOTIATING OR
9 HAS AGREED TO A PILOT AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY.
10 (E) PILOT.
11 “PILOT” MEANS NEGOTIATED PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF PROPERTY TAXES, AS AUTHORIZED
12 BY THE ENABLING LAW.
13 (F) PILOT AGREEMENT.
14 “PILOT AGREEMENT” MEANS AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN A PARTICIPATING INSTITUTION
15 AND THE CITY PROVIDING FOR NEGOTIATED PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF PROPERTY TAXES.
16 (G) TASK FORCE.
17 “TASK FORCE” MEANS THE PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES TASK FORCE.
18 § 13-2.  ESTABLISHMENT.
19 THERE IS A PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES TASK FORCE IN THE OFFICE OF THE CITY
20 COMPTROLLER.
21 § 13-3.  COMPOSITION.
22 (A) IN GENERAL.
23 THE TASK FORCE COMPRISES 17 MEMBERS.
24 (B) VOTING MEMBERS.
25 (1) 10 MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE MAYOR IN ACCORDANCE WITH CITY CHARTER
26 ARTICLE IV, § 6, INCLUDING:
27 (I) 5 UNION REPRESENTATIVES NOMINATED BY THE METRO BALTIMORE AFL-CIO
28 COUNCIL THAT REPRESENT BALTIMORE CITY HOSPITAL, PRIVATE UNIVERSITY,
29 OR PUBLIC SECTOR WORKERS;
30 (II) 2 REPRESENTATIVES FROM A HOSPITAL WITH MORE THAN 500 BEDS;
dlr24-0140(5)~1st/11Mar25
Art28/cc25-0036~1st Reader/PP:rf:ad - 2 -
Council Bill 25-0036
1 (III) 1 REPRESENTATIVE FROM A HOSPITAL WITH FEWER THAN 500 BEDS; AND
2 (IV) 2 REPRESENTATIVES OF THE MARYLAND INDEPENDENT COLLEGE AND
3 UNIVERSITY ASSOCIATION;
4 (2) 3 MEMBERS NOMINATED BY THE CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT AND APPOINTED BY THE
5 MAYOR IN ACCORDANCE WITH CITY CHARTER ARTICLE IV, § 6, WHO SHALL:
6 (I) BE BALTIMORE CITY RESIDENTS;
7 (II) HAVE AN ANNUAL INCOME AT OR BELOW 100% AMI; AND
8 (III) RESIDE IN DIFFERENT DISTRICTS OF THE CITY COUNCIL;
9 (3)  THE CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT OR THE CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT’S
10  DESIGNEE;
11 (4) THE CITY COMPTROLLER OR THE CITY COMPTROLLER’S DESIGNEE;
12 (5) THE MAYOR OR THE MAYOR’S DESIGNEE; AND
13 (6) A MEMBER OF THE BALTIMORE CITY COUNCIL.
14 (C) EX-OFFICIO MEMBERS.
15 THE EX-OFFICIO MEMBERS OF THE TASK FORCE ARE COMPRISED OF THE FOLLOWING
16 INDIVIDUALS:
17 (1) THE DIRECTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE OR THE DIRECTOR’S DESIGNEE;
18 (2) THE COMMISSIONER OF THE BALTIMORE CITY HEALTH DEPARTMENT OR THE
19 COMMISSIONER’S DESIGNEE;
20 (3) THE CITY SOLICITOR OR THE CITY SOLICITOR’S DESIGNEE; AND
21 (4) THE COMMISSIONER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY
22 DEVELOPMENT OR THE COMMISSIONER’S DESIGNEE.
23 § 13-4.  TERMS; ORGANIZATION.
24 (A) TERMS.
25 MEMBERS SERVE FOR A TERM OF 4 YEARS, CONCURRENT WITH THE MAYOR’S TERM OF
26 OFFICE.
27 (B) VACANCIES.
28 (1) AT THE END OF A TERM, A MEMBER SERVES UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS SELECTED AND
29 QUALIFIES.
dlr24-0140(5)~1st/11Mar25
Art28/cc25-0036~1st Reader/PP:rf:ad - 3 -
Council Bill 25-0036
1 (2) A MEMBER WHO IS SELECTED AFTER A TERM HAS BEGUN SERVES FOR THE REST OF THE
2 TERM AND UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS SELECTED AND QUALIFIES.
3 (C) COMPENSATION.
4 A MEMBER OF THE TASK FORCE:
5 (1) SERVES WITHOUT COMPENSATION; BUT
6 (2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR REASONABLE EXPENSES INCURRED IN THE
7 PERFORMANCE OF THE MEMBER’S DUTIES, AS PROVIDED IN THE ORDINANCE OF
8 ESTIMATES.
9 (D) OFFICERS.
10 (1) BY MAJORITY VOTE OF THE VOTING MEMBERS OF THE TASK FORCE, THE TASK FORCE
11 SHALL ELECT A CHAIR FROM AMONG ITS MEMBERS.
12 (2) THE CHAIR MAY SELECT OTHER OFFICERS.
13 (E) QUORUM.
14 A MAJORITY OF THE MEMBERS OF THE TASK FORCE QUALIFIES AS A QUORUM FOR
15 TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS.
16 (F) VOTING.
17 AN AFFIRMATIVE VOTE FROM AT LEAST A MAJORITY OF MEMBERS IS NEEDED TO APPROVE
18 ANY OFFICIAL ACTION.
19 (G) MEETINGS.
20 THE TASK FORCE:
21 (1) SHALL MEET AT THE CALL OF THE CHAIR; BUT
22 (2) SHALL MEET AT LEAST ONCE A MONTH.
23 § 13-5.  STAFF.
24 THE COMPTROLLER SHALL ASSIGN STAFF FROM THE OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER TO SERVE
25 AS STAFF TO THE TASK FORCE TO PROVIDE ADMINISTRATIVE AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT.
dlr24-0140(5)~1st/11Mar25
Art28/cc25-0036~1st Reader/PP:rf:ad - 4 -
Council Bill 25-0036
1 § 13-6.  DUTIES.
2 THE TASK FORCE SHALL:
3 (1) RECOMMEND A STANDARD FORMULA BY WHICH PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES SHALL BE
4 DETERMINED FOR EACH TAX-EXEMPT HOSPITAL AND UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY THAT
5 TAKES INTO CONSIDERATION AN INSTITUTION’S TOTAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION
6 AND USE OF CITY SERVICES;
7 (2) PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS ON LEGISLATIVE CHANGES NEEDED AT THE CITY OR
8 STATE LEVEL RELATED TO PILOT;
9 (3) PUBLISH PUBLIC REPORTS ON THE STATUS OF ANNUAL PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES OF
10 EACH PARTICIPATING INSTITUTION IN COLLABORATION WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF
11 FINANCE;
12 (4) EDUCATE BALTIMORE CITY RESIDENTS ABOUT PILOT AGREEMENTS, THE TASK
13 FORCE, AND THE IMPACT THAT PROPERTY TAXES HAVE ON THE CITY BUDGET; AND
14 (5) EDUCATE BALTIMORE CITY RESIDENTS ABOUT ANY EXISTING PILOT AGREEMENTS
15 BETWEEN THE CITY AND PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS.
16 § 13-7.  ANNUAL REPORT.
17 ON BEFORE DECEMBER 31 OF EACH YEAR, THE DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, WITH THE
18 ASSISTANCE OF THE TASK FORCE, SHALL SUBMIT A REPORT TO THE MAYOR AND CITY
19 COUNCIL DETAILING:
20 (1) THE RECOMMENDED STANDARD FORMULA FOR PILOT AGREEMENTS AS REQUIRED BY
21 §13-6(1) OF THIS SUBTITLE;
22 (2) THE ANNUAL PAYMENTS MADE BY EACH PARTICIPATING INSTITUTION UNDER THE
23 TERMS OF A PILOT AGREEMENT;
24 (3) THE STATUS OF FULFILLMENT OF EACH PARTICIPATING INSTITUTION’S OBLIGATIONS
25 UNDER A PILOT AGREEMENT; AND
26 (4) ANY OTHER INFORMATION REQUESTED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL.
27 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That Councilmember Phylicia Porter shall
28 serve as the member of the City Council on the Task Force under § 13-3(b)(6) of this Ordinance
29 for the initial term of the Task Force.
30 SECTION 3.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That the Baltimore City PILOT Task Force
31 shall convene its first meeting no later than July 31, 2025.
32 SECTION 4.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on
33 June 1, 2025.
dlr24-0140(5)~1st/11Mar25
Art28/cc25-0036~1st Reader/PP:rf:ad - 5 -
