EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0095
(First Reader)

Introduced by:  Councilmember Parker
Cosponsored by: Councilmembers Dorsey, Conway, Middleton, Torrence, Gray, Bullock, Porter,
Blanchard, Jones, Glover, and Ramos
Introduced and read first time: September 15, 2025
Assigned to: Land Use and Transportation Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Department of
Transportation, Parking Authority of Baltimore City, Department of Housing and Community
Development, Office of Equity and Civil Rights
A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2 Commercial Motor Vehicle Repair on City Streets – Prohibition
3 FOR the purpose of prohibiting the practice of commercial non-emergency motor vehicle repairs
4 on City streets or footways; establishing certain penalties; and defining certain terms.
5 BY repealing and re-ordaining, with amendments
6 Article 1 - Mayor, City Council, and Municipal Agencies
7 Section 40-14(e)(10)
8 Baltimore City Code
9 (Edition 2000)
10 BY repealing and re-ordaining, with amendments
11 Article 1 - Mayor, City Council, and Municipal Agencies
12 Section 41-14(10)
13 Baltimore City Code
14 (Edition 2000)
15 BY renumbering
16 Article 31 - Transportation
17 Section 1-2(d) through (o)
18 to be
19 Section 1-2(e) through (p), respectively
20 Baltimore City Code
21 (Edition 2000)
22 BY adding
23 Article 31 - Transportation
24 Section 1-2(d)
25 Baltimore City Code
26 (Edition 2000)
dlr25-0400(4)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0095~1st Reader/ch:ad
Council Bill 25-0095
1 BY repealing and re-ordaining, with amendments
2 Article 31 - Transportation
3 Section 16-5
4 Baltimore City Code
5 (Edition 2000)
6 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That
7 Section 1-2(d) through (o) of Article 31 - Transportation of the Baltimore City Code be
8 renumbered to be Section 1-2(e) through (p), respectively.
9 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That the Laws of Baltimore City read as
10 follows:
11 Baltimore City Code
12 Article 1.  Mayor, City Council, and Municipal Agencies
13 Subtitle 41.  Civil Citations
14 § 40-14.  Offenses to which subtitle applies – Listing.
15 (e) Provisions and penalties enumerated.
16 (10)  Article 31.  Transit and Traffic
17 . . .
18 Subtitle 16.  Use-of-the-Road Regulations
19 § 16-5.  REPAIRING VEHICLES ON STREETS
20 AS A MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR SERVICE ON
21 A PUBLIC STREET OR FOOTWAY
22 1ST OFFENSE $100
23 SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE $200
24 ALL OTHER VIOLATIONS
25 1ST OFFENSE $  25
26 SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE $100
27 § 16-12.  Vehicles on sidewalks $  50
28 . . .
dlr25-0400(4)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0095~1st Reader/ch:ad - 2 -
Council Bill 25-0095
1 Subtitle 41.  Civil Citations
2 § 41-14.  Offenses to which subtitle applies – Listing.
3 (10)  Article 31.  Transit and Traffic
4 . . .
5 Subtitle 16.  Use-of-the-Road Regulations
6 § 16-5.  REPAIRING VEHICLES ON STREETS
7 AS A MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR SERVICE ON A
8 PUBLIC STREET OR FOOTWAY
9 1ST OFFENSE $100
10 SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE $200
11 ALL OTHER VIOLATIONS
12 1ST OFFENSE $  25
13 SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE $100
14 § 16-12.  Vehicles on sidewalks $  50
15 . . .
16 Article 31.  Transportation
17 Subtitle 1.  Definitions; General Provisions
18 § 1-2.  Definitions — M to R.
19 (D) MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR SERVICE.
20 “MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR SERVICE” MEANS A PERSON THAT IS ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS
21 OF PERFORMING MAJOR OR MINOR REPAIRS TO A MOTOR VEHICLE, INCLUDING:
22 (1) COLLISION SERVICES, INCLUDING BODY, FRAME, OR FENDER REPAIR OR
23 STRAIGHTENING;
24 (2) MAINTENANCE, REPAIRS, OR ADJUSTMENT OF ANY ENGINE COMPONENTS;
25 (3) BRAKE ADJUSTMENTS AND REPAIRS;
26 (4) REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT OF COOLING, ELECTRICAL, FUEL, OR EXHAUST SYSTEMS;
27 (5) WHEEL ALIGNMENT, BALANCING, AND SERVICING;
28       (6) TIRE REPLACEMENT, REPAIR, OR ROTATION;
dlr25-0400(4)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0095~1st Reader/ch:ad - 3 -
Council Bill 25-0095
1      (7) REPAIR, REPLACEMENT, OR ADJUSTMENT OF MUFFLERS, TAIL PIPES, HOSES, BELTS,
2 BULBS, FUSES, WINDSHIELD WIPERS, GREASE RETAINERS, WHEEL BEARINGS, AND
3 SHOCK ABSORBERS;
4    (8) PAINTING; OR
5       (9) ANOTHER SIMILAR SERVICE.
6 Subtitle 16.  Use-of-the-Road Regulations
7 § 16-5.  Repairing vehicles on streets.
8 (a)  Prohibited conduct.
9 (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to make any repairs to a motor vehicle or to replace
10 or repair any tire or other part of a motor vehicle on any public street where the
11 standing of such vehicle or vehicles will wholly or partially obstruct any lane of
12 traffic.
13 (2) It shall be unlawful for any vehicle in the process of being repaired or waiting to be
14 repaired or any vehicle on which a tire or other part thereof is being replaced or
15 waiting for a tire or other part thereof to be replaced to stand double or to do any work
16 or place any tools or equipment on any sidewalk in connection with the repair of any
17 vehicle or the replacement or repair of any tire or other part thereof.
18 (3) IT SHALL BE UNLAWFUL FOR A MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR SERVICE TO MAKE A REPAIR,
19 REPLACEMENT, OR ADJUSTMENT TO A MOTOR VEHICLE OR PART OF A MOTOR VEHICLE
20 ON ANY PUBLIC STREET OR FOOTWAY.
21 (b)  Emergency repairs excepted.
22 The provisions of this section shall not apply to emergency repairs, which are defined as
23 repairs necessary as the result of an unexpected malfunction or breakdown and which are
24 necessary in order to move the vehicle safely and without damage to same.
25 (c)  Penalties.
26 (1) IN GENERAL.
27 Any person violating [any of the provisions] PARAGRAPH (A)(1) OR (A)(2) of this
28 section shall be subject to:
29 (I) [(1)]  a penalty of not less than $5 or more than $25 for the 1st offense; and
30       (II) [(2)]  a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100 for subsequent offenses.
dlr25-0400(4)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0095~1st Reader/ch:ad - 4 -
Council Bill 25-0095
1 (2) REPAIR IN STREET OR FOOTWAY.
2 ANY PERSON WHO VIOLATES PARAGRAPH (A)(3) OF THIS SECTION SHALL BE SUBJECT
3 TO:
4 (I) A PENALTY OF NOT LESS THAN $25 OR MORE THAN $100 FOR THE 1ST OFFENSE;
5 AND
6       (II) A FINE OF NOT LESS THAN $100 NOR MORE THAN $200 FOR SUBSEQUENT
7 OFFENSES.
8 SECTION 3.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the 30th day
9 after the date it is enacted.
dlr25-0400(4)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0095~1st Reader/ch:ad - 5 -
