
Oct 29, 2025
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
The Honorable Isaac Schleifer
Baltimore City Council
City Hall, 5th Floor
100 North Holliday Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21202
isaac.schleifer@baltimorecity.gov

Re: Rezoning – 4308 Hayward Ave, 4310 Hayward Ave,4312 Hayward Ave, Lot 31

Dear Councilman Schleifer:
On behalf of my client, Bull Rogers Station LLC, I write to request that you, as the
Councilmember for the 5th Councilmanic District, introduce a City Council bill to rezone
the properties known as 4308 Hayward Ave, 4310 Hayward Ave,4312 Hayward Ave, Lot 31 (the
“Properties”) from the R-5 Zoning District to the TOD-1 Zoning District. In furtherance of this
request, the following is submitted:

1. A draft of the City Council bill to rezone the Property;
2. A rezoning plat showing the property to be rezoned outlined in red;
3. A completed Statement of Intent for the City Council bill;
4. A letter of support for the proposed rezoning from the Hilltop 4100 Community
Association; and
5. A letter of support for the proposed rezoning from the Maryland Department of
Transportation.

I am simultaneously transmitting these documents electronically to Mr. Ben Guthorn in
the Department of Legislative Reference and Mr. Eric Tiso in the Department of Planning
and would be happy to provide hard copies if necessary.

Thank you in advance for your assistance and please do not hesitate to contact me if there
is any further information you need.















Enclosures
cc:  Mr. Ben Guthorn, Department of Legislative Reference
(via electronic mail w/enclosures)
Mr. Eric Tiso, Department of Planning
(via electronic mail w/enclosures)
Bull Rogers Station, LLC
(via electronic mail w/enclosures)




CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-_____
(First Reader)

Introduced by: Councilman Isaac Schleifer
At the request of: Bull Rogers Station, LLC
Address: c/o Winfield Willis
2816 Hillsdale Rd
Baltimore, Maryland 21207
Telephone: 443-825-0363
Introduced and read first time: _______________
Assigned to: Land Use and Transportation Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Planning
Commission, Baltimore Development Corporation, Department of Housing and Community
Development
A BILL ENTITLED

1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2 Rezoning – 4308 Hayward Ave, 4310 Hayward Ave,4312 Hayward Ave, Lot 31
3 FOR the purpose of changing the zoning for the properties known as 4308 Hayward Ave (Block
4502A, Lot 003), 4310 Hayward Ave (Block 4502A, Lot 003A),4312 Hayward Ave (Block
4502A, Lot 003B), and Lot 31 (Block 4502A, Lot 031), as outlined in red on the
accompanying plat, from the R-5 Zoning District to the TOD-1 Zoning District; and providing
for a special effective date.
4 BY amending
5 Article - Zoning
6 Zoning District Maps
7 Sheet 11
8 Baltimore City Revised Code
9 (Edition 2000)
10 SECTION 1. BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That
11 Sheet __ of the Zoning District Maps is amended by changing from the R- 5 Zoning District to the
TOD-1 Zoning District the properties known as 4308 Hayward Ave (Block 4502A, Lot 003),
4310 Hayward Ave (Block 4502A, Lot 003A),4312 Hayward Ave (Block 4502A, Lot 003B), and
Lot 31 (Block 4502A, Lot 031), as outlined in red on the plat accompanying this Ordinance.
12 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That as evidence of the authenticity of the
13 accompanying plat and in order to give notice to the agencies that administer the City Zoning
14 Ordinance: (i) when the City Council passes this Ordinance, the President of the City Council
15 shall sign the plat; (ii) when the Mayor approves this Ordinance, the Mayor shall sign the plat;
16 and (iii) the Director of Finance then shall transmit a copy of this Ordinance and the plat to the
17 Board of Municipal and Zoning Appeals, the Planning Commission, the Commissioner of


18 Housing and Community Development, the Supervisor of Assessments for Baltimore City, and
19 the Zoning Administrator.







1 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the date it is
2 enacted.
SCALE 1" = 100'100'200'0'50'
BULL ROGERSSTATION, LLC2816 HILLSDALE RD,BALTIMORE, MD 21207
DATE:  10/2025
WARD:SECTION:BLOCK: LOT:
ZONING PLAT EXHIBIT: 8.5x11
APPLICANT:PROPERTY OWNER:4308 HAYWARD AVE:SIMMONS, EDWIN D4308 HAYWARD AVEBALTIMORE MD 21215
3, 3A, 3B, 314502-A28 2
SHEET NO. 11 OF THE ZONING MAP OF THEZONING CODE OF BALTIMORE CITY
4310 HAYWARD AVE:WILLIS, WINFIELDLEWIS, PATRICIA R2816 HILLSDALE RDBALTIMORE, MD. 21207
CITYSCAPEENGINEERING, LLC3600 CLIPPER MILL RDSUITE 214BALTIMORE, MD 21211PHONE: 410-601-3290
PREPARED BY:4312 HAYWARD AVE:WILLIS, WINFIELDLEWIS, PATRICIA R4310 HAYWARD AVEBALTIMORE, MD. 21215PRESIDENT CITY COUNCILMAYORHAYWARD AVENUE - ZONING PLAT
NOTES:IN CONNECTION WITHTHE PROPERTIES KNOWNAS LOTS NO. 3, 3A, 3B,AND 31 ON BALTIMORECITY BLOCK PLAT 4502-A.THE APPLICANT WISHESTO REQUEST TO REQUESTTHE REZONING OF THEAFOREMENTIONEDPROPERTY ANDRIGHT-OF-WAY FROM R-5ZONING TO TOD-1ZONING, AS OUTLINED INRED.HAYWARD AVENUE
N ROGERS AVENUE
WABASH AVENUEROGERS AVENUEMETRO STATION
TOD-1
R-5
R-5R-6TOD-1
TOD-1TOD-1R-4 LEGEND:PROPERTY LINEZONING BOUNDARY
DEPARTMENT OF LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE STATEMENT OF INTENT FORM (LR-01) 100 Holliday Street Phone: (410) 396-4730City Hall, Suite 626Email: ben.guthorn@baltimorecity.govBaltimore,Maryland 21202
Rev.JUL-24.
01.Property Information.Property Address:Block:Lot:City:State:Zip Code:02.Applicant’sContactInformation.First Name:Last Name: Mailing Address:City:State:Zip Code:Telephone Number:Email Address:03.Agency. Is the applicant acting as an agent for another? If the applicant is acting as an agent for another, please include the names of all individuals on whose behalf the applicant is acting. If a corporate entity is involved, please include the name of each entity and each respective majority owner. (Use an additional sheet if necessary.) Corporate Entity:01First Name: Last Name: Mailing Address:City:State:Zip Code:02 First Name: Last Name: Mailing Address:City:State:Zip Code:04. Current Property Owner’s ContactInformation (if different than applicant). First Name:Last Name: Mailing Address:City:State:Zip Code:Telephone Number:Email Address:
Statement of Intent Form (LR-01)
Page 2of 3 Rev.JUL-24.
05.PropertyAcquisition.Date the property was acquired by the current owner:Deed ReferenceLiber/Book:Folio/Page:06.AllProposedZoningChangesfortheProperty.Zoning DistrictCurrent Zoning District:Requested Zoning District:Conditional UseExisting Use:Proposed Conditional Use:Please describe all intended uses of the Property:MultifamilyConversion of a Single-Family Dwelling Unit to Multiple Dwelling UnitsProposed Number of Units:Gross Square Footage of Building: (Not including basement area) Unit 01 Gross Sq./Ft: No. of Bedrooms:Unit 02Gross Sq./Ft: No. of Bedrooms:Unit Gross Sq./Ft: No. of Bedrooms:Unit Gross Sq./Ft: No. of Bedrooms:(Add additional units as needed.) ARTICLE 32, § 9-703. CONVERSION STANDARDS. (a) In general.All conversions must meet the standards set forth in this section.(b) Existing dwelling.(1) The existing dwelling must be:(i) a structure originally constructed as a single-family dwelling; and(ii) 1,500 square feet or more in gross floor area.(2) For purposes of this subsection, gross floor area does not include any basement area.(c) GFA per dwelling unit.The converted dwelling must meet the following gross floor area per unit type:(1) 1-bedroom unit: 750 square feet.(2) 2-bedroom unit: 1,000 square feet.(3) 3- or more bedroom unit: 1,250 square feet.*Please note that one off-street parking space is required per each dwelling unit added.
Statement of Intent Form (LR-01)

Page 3 of 3 Rev.JUL-24.
07. Contract Contingency.
Is there a purchase contract contingent on the requested legislative authorization?
If there is a purchase contract contingent on the requested legislative authorization,
please include the names and addresses of all parties to the contract.
(Add additional parties as needed.)
1ST PARTY  First Name: Last Name:
Mailing Address:
City: State: Zip Code:
2ND PARTY First Name: Last Name:
Mailing Address:
City: State: Zip Code:
The purposes, nature, and effect of the contract are:




08. Affidavit.
I,      , solemnly affirm under the penalties of perjury that the
information given in this Statement of Intent is true and complete to the best of my
knowledge, information and belief.

Applicant’s Signature

Date

April, 2025
Councilman,
Isaac Schleifer
District 5
HILLTOP 4100 NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION
Baltimore, Maryland 2121S
"There's Unity in the Hilltop Community"
Baltimore City Council
Re: 4308 Hayward Ave, 4310 Hayward Ave, 4312 Hayward Ave, Lot 31
Dear Councilman Schleifer:
Please accept this letter on behalf of Hilltop 4100 Neighborhood
Association in support of the rezoning of 4308 Hayward Avenue,
4310 Hayward Avenue, 4312 Hayward Avenue and Lot 31 (the
"Properties") from the R-5 District to the TOD-1 District. At the
present, the Properties are improved by a vacant two vacant lots and
two single family dwellings. The proposed "250" unit multi family
dwelling will be transit oriented development once complete,
provide additional transit friendly housing options for community
members, and encourage investment in the neighborhood. Under the
current R-5 designation, the Property's redevelopment potential is
greatly limited. Rezoning the lot to the TOD-1 District will facilitate
redevelopment and benefit the Woodmere community as a whole.
Yours truly,
Minerva C. Eaton
President, Hilltop 4100 Neighborhood Association


7201 Corporate Center Drive, Hanover, Maryland 21076  |  410.865.1000  |  Maryland Relay TTY 410.859.7227  |  mdot.maryland.gov

October 22, 2025

Councilman, Isaac Schleifer
Baltimore City Council - District 5


RE:  MDOT’s support for rezoning of  4308 Hayward Avenue, 4310 Hayward Avenue,
4312 Hayward Avenue, Lot 31 Baltimore City, Maryland 21215

Dear Councilman Schleifer,
The Maryland Department of Transportation (MDOT) supports the proposed rezoning from R -5
to TOD-1 for 4308, 4310, and 4312 Hayward Avenue and Lot 31, located adjacent to Maryland
Transit Administration (MTA) property at the Rogers Avenue Metro Station.
The rezoning aligns with Governor Moore’s 2024 State Plan, the Housing Starts Here  Executive
Order, and MDOT’s Transit -Oriented Development (TOD) goals to increase transit ridership,
expand housing near transit stations, and improve station access and connectivity. TOD -1 zoning
will enable a greater mix of uses and higher -density development next to transit, helping to
maximize the return on the State’s planned $2 billion investment in MTA’s core service area,
including new metro railcars. Together, these actions advance  Maryland’s commitment to
compact, walkable communities that reduce congestion, drive economic growth, and enhance
access to transit.
The Rogers Avenue Metro Station is an identified TOD priority for MDOT. In July, MDOT
completed a TOD Site Strategy confirming  the site’s feasibility for TOD. Following this work,
MDOT and the City have begun discussions to pursue formal TOD designation in recognition of
the site’s strong development potential and alignment with State priorities. MDOT  is now
advancing due diligence activities and anticipates a future solicitation of its land owned adjacent
to the station following community and stakeholder engagement.
We respectfully request your consideration and approval of the proposed zoning as it will facilitate
a future mixed use project which aligns with the broader goals of TOD across the State.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,


Joe McAndrew
Assistant Secretary
Maryland Department of Transportation

Docusign Envelope ID: 48EE7EC4-3856-4869-9E36-9AFB8927E8B8
