 
SB-24-15017 - FY2025 Supplemental for Grant Award - Baltimore City Department of
Recreation and Parks Forest Health and Deer Management Grant
AGC6300 - Recreation and Parks
ACTION REQUESTED:
The Board is requested to approve a Supplemental Appropriation to the Fiscal 2025 Adopted
Budget. Period of agreement is: 9/1/2024 to 6/30/2025
AMOUNT AND SOURCE OF FUNDS:
Transaction Amount: $ 90,000.00
Project Fund Amount    
5000-GRT002462-CCA000992-
RC0603
$ 90,000.00    
BACKGROUND/EXPLANATION:
The proposed Board action seeks to approve a $90,000 supplemental appropriation to the
Fiscal 2025 Adopted Budget. The proposal amends the Fiscal 2025 budget by appropriating
$90,000 in State Grant Funding in the Department of Recreation and Parks-Service 654 Urban
Forestry. This grant is part of the Forest Health and Deer Management program. The
Department was notified about the grant award following the finalization of the Fiscal 2025
budget. Additional funding from this grant will be included in the Department's Fiscal 2026
budget request.
Funding from the grant will be used to address deer overpopulation and its negative impact of
forested natural areas in Baltimore City. Grant funding will be used to hire a contractual position
to oversee program implementation. This position will conduct deer population surveys in eight
parks (Gwynn Falls Leakin, Druid Hill, Hanlon, Ft. Armistead, Herring Run, Moore’s Run, Powder
Mill, and Farring Baybrook).
Additionally, a local match of $150,000 will be provided by the Office of Sustainability for the
Gwynn Falls Leakin Park deer exclosure fence and native plants.
The proposed budget for these funds is included below.
Expenditure Type FY2025 Supplemental Amount
Personnel $43,800
Supplies $20,000
Contractual Services$22,000
Indirect Costs $4,200
Total $90,000
Board of Estimates
Agenda Budget 2/5/2025
EMPLOY
BALTIMORE:
LIVING WAGE: LOCAL HIRING: PREVAILING WAGE:
N/A N/A N/A N/A
COUNCIL DISTRICT: Citywide
ENDORSEMENTS:
Finance (BBMR) has reviewed and approved for funds.
SMBA&D has reviewed and approved.
Audits has reviewed and found that it confirms the grant awards
Board of Estimates
Agenda Budget 2/5/2025
