EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0059
(First Reader)

Introduced by: Councilmember Gray
Cosponsored by: Councilmembers Dorsey, Conway, Middleton, Bullock, Porter, Blanchard,
Jones, Ramos, Parker, Torrence, and Glover, and President Cohen
Introduced and read first time: April 28, 2025
Assigned to: Housing and Economic Development Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Department of
Housing and Community Development, Department of Real Estate

A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2 Building, Fire, and Related Codes – Vacant Building Receivers –
3 Failure to Sell
4 FOR the purpose of permitting a vacant building receiver to offer the property for sale to the
5 Mayor and City Council of Baltimore City, if the property fails to sell at public auction; and
6 providing certain limitations on the sale price.
7 BY adding
8 Article - Building, Fire, and Related Codes
9 Section(s) 2-103 (BC § 121.10.5)
10 Baltimore City Revised Code
11 (2018 Edition)
12 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That the
13 Laws of Baltimore City read as follows:
dlr24-0066(1)~1st/29Apr25
BFR/cc25-0059~1st Reader/td:rf:ad
Council Bill 25-0059
1 Baltimore City Revised Code
2 Article – Building, Fire, and Related Codes
3 Part II.  International Building Code
4 § 2-103.  City modifications.
5 The additions, deletions, amendments, and other modifications adopted by the City are as
6 follows:
7 Chapter 1.  Scope and Administration
8 Section 121  Vacant Building Receiver
9 121.10.5  FAILURE TO SELL.  A RECEIVER APPOINTED TO SELL A VACANT BUILDING MAY
10 OFFER THE PROPERTY FOR SALE TO THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE CITY,
11 IF THE PROPERTY FAILS TO SELL AT PUBLIC AUCTION HELD IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
12 PROVISIONS THAT APPLY TO A RECEIVER APPOINTED UNDER RULE 3-722 {“RECEIVERS”}
13 AND TITLE 14, CHAPTER 300 {“JUDICIAL SALES”} OF THE MARYLAND RULES.  THE SALE
14 PRICE SHALL NOT EXCEED THE RECEIVER’S EXPENSES IN PREPARING THE PROPERTY FOR
15 AUCTION, HOLDING THE AUCTION, AND TRANSFERRING TITLE.
16 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the 30th day
17 after the date it is enacted.
dlr24-0066(1)~1st/29Apr25
BFR/cc25-0059~1st Reader/td:rf:ad - 2 -
