        CITY OF BALTIMORE

BRANDON M. SCOTT
Mayor



DEPARTMENT OF LAW
EBONY THOMPSON
CITY SOLICITOR
100 N. HOLLIDAY STREET
SUITE 101, CITY HALL
BALTIMORE, MD 21202


November 18, 2025


The Honorable President and Members
  of the Baltimore City Council
Room 409, City Hall
100 N. Holliday Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21202

Re: City Council Bill 25-0116 – Security Officers – Compensation

Dear President and City Council Members:

The Law Department has reviewed City Council Bill 25-0116 for form and legal
sufficiency. The bill would: establish a minimum wage for covered security officers employed in
the City; require the Wage Commission to determine and publish that minimum wage annually
based upon a specific formula ; require employers who employ two or more covered security
officers in the City to pay those workers no less than that minimum wage; and make failure to pay
that minimum wage a violation of Division I of Article 11 of the City Code.

As a general matter, the City’s police power extends to establishing a local minimum wage.
See Mayor and City Council v. Sitnick , 254 Md. 303, 309 -10 (1969). This bill establishes a
minimum wage for only one class of workers , i.e., certain security officers , so it would need to
comply with constitutional equal protection requirements. If there is a rational basis for mandating
a higher minimum wage for certain security workers than other workers—as well as for excluding
certain security workers from the higher wage—then the disparate treatment is permissible so long
as it is related to a legitimate government interest. See, e.g., Mgmt. Corp. v. Baltimore Cnty., 104
Md. App. 234, 243 (1995) (where there is no “infringement of a fundamental right or
discrimination against a suspect class, we review the Council’s actions under the rational basis
test”); Id. at 244 (explaining that under the rational basis test, a law’s disparate treatment of
similarly situated parties may pass constitutional muster if that disparate treatment bears a rational
relationship to legitimate government interests).

Assuming the City has a legitimate government interest in classifying certain security
officers differently than other similarly situated workers, and that the classification is related to a
legitimate government interest , the Law Department can approve the bill for form and legal
sufficiency.



Page 2 of 2


                                                           Sincerely,

Jeffrey Hochstetler
Chief Solicitor

cc:   Ebony Thompson, Acting City Solicitor
Ty’lor Schnella, Mayor’s Office of Government Relations
 Hilary Ruley, Chief Solicitor, General Counsel Division
Ashlea Brown, Chief Solicitor
Michelle Toth, Assistant Solicitor
Desireé Luckey, Assistant Solicitor
