 Becky  Witt  Board  of  Municipal  &  Zoning  Appeals  417  E.  Fayette  Street,  Suite  922  Baltimore,  MD  21202  BMZA@baltimorecity.gov  CC:  Ofﬁce  of  the  Zoning  Administrator,  7th  District  Councilman  James  Torrece   May  4,  2025   Re:  Application  for  3224  Auchentoroly  Terrace   Dear  Director  Witt,   The  New  Auchentoroly  Terrace  Association,  Inc.  (ATA)  supports  the  request  to  use  3224
Auchentoroly

Terrace

Baltimore

Maryland

as

a

multi-family

dwelling

consisting

of

two

units.

This

home

is

located

in

the

Auchentoroly

Terrace

neighborhood

for

which

we

are

the

representative

community

association.
  Since  last  October,  the  New  Auchentoroly  Terrace  Association  has  engaged  in  discussions
with

Chase

Hoffberger

regarding

the

proposed

conversion

by

his

client,

Via

Companies

LLC,

of

3224

Auchentoroly

Terrace

from

a

single-family

dwelling

to

a

multi-family

dwelling

with

two

dwelling

units.
  Via  Companies  has  provided  our  association’s  Land  Use  Committee  with  ﬂoor  plans  and
answered

questions

about

the

proposed

conversion.

The

group

has

adjusted

their

plans

for

redevelopment

to

better

meet

the

density

preferences

of

our

committee

and

community.

Our

committee

has

also

reviewed

the

zoning

memo

from

the

Zoning

Administrator.

We

understand

that

the

conversion

of

this

property

requires

only

a

variance

for

one

off-street

parking

space.
  Because  this  property  is  a  single-family  dwelling  in  an  R-7  zoning  district,  legislation  is
required

to

allow

for

this

conversion.

We

write

to

express

our

support

for

the

conversion,

and

we

hope

that

you

will

work

with

Mr.

Hoffberger

and

Via

Companies

to

introduce

legislation

that

will

allow

for

the

thoughtful

rehabilitation

of

this

property.
  Should  there  be  additional  questions,  please  contact  ATA  at  auchentorolyterraceassociation@gmail.com.   Respectfully,   Michael  Grooms     Graham  Coreil-Allen  Land  Use  Committee  Chair    Land  Use  Committee   New  Auchentoroly  Terrace  Association,  Inc.  3201  Tioga  Parkway,  Suite  P,  Baltimore,  MD  21215
