 
SB-24-13767 - FY25 Budget Supplemental for Grant Award - FY24 – FY26 Key Bridge
Disaster Recovery Grant
AGC4500 - M-R Office of Employment Development
ACTION REQUESTED:
The Board is requested to approve a Supplemental Appropriation for the FY25 Budget for Grant
Award - FY24 – FY26 Key Bridge Disaster Recovery Grant. Period of agreement is: 7/1/2024 to
12/31/2025
AMOUNT AND SOURCE OF FUNDS:
Transaction Amount: $ 1,375,655.00
Project Fund Amount    
4000-GRT002395-CCA001206 $ 1,375,655.00    
BACKGROUND/EXPLANATION:
On August 21, 2024, the Board approved this notice of award from the Maryland Department of
Labor for $1,375,655.00 for the term March 26, 2024 to December 31, 2025. The award was not
anticipated during the planning period and hence not appropriated in the FY25 budget.
Of the 8,000 workers impacted by the Key Bridge collapse and closure of the Port of Baltimore,
an estimated 60% are residents of Baltimore City. In the three days immediately following the
collapse, over 400 new unemployment claims were led, and over 1,000 more people called for
information about filing unemployment claims. While additional data is pending, it seems clear
that unemployment claims will continue to increase and impacts from the collapse will ripple
out into the community. The funds will provide case management, barrier removal, supportive
services, and skills training to workers dislocated by the disaster, as well as occupational skills
training to prepare workers to assist with disaster recovery efforts and, eventually, the
reconstruction of the bridge.
EMPLOY
BALTIMORE:
LIVING WAGE: LOCAL HIRING: PREVAILING WAGE:
N/A N/A N/A N/A
COUNCIL DISTRICT: Citywide
ENDORSEMENTS:
Finance (BBMR) has reviewed and approved for funds.
Law has reviewed and approved for form and legal sufficiency
SMBA&D has reviewed and approved.
Audits has reviewed and has no objection to BOE approval
Board of Estimates
Agenda Budget 2/19/2025
