EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0108
(First Reader)

Introduced by: The Council President
At the request of: The Administration (Department of Finance)
Introduced and read first time: October 20, 2025
Assigned to: Budget and Appropriations Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Board of Liquor
License Commissioners

A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2 Supplementary General Fund Operating Appropriation – Liquor License
3 Board – $454,415
4 FOR the purpose of providing a Supplementary General Fund Operating Appropriation in the
5 amount of $454,415 to the Liquor License Board – Service 851 (Liquor License
6 Compliance), to provide funding to balance the Liquor License Board’s Fiscal Year 2025
7 budget for a deficit caused by office lease costs, use of privately leased vehicles, and
8 overtime; and providing for a special effective date.
9 BY authority of
10 Article VI - Board of Estimates
11 Section 8(b)(2)(iii) and (c)
12 Baltimore City Charter
13 (1996 Edition)
14 Recitals
15 The revenue appropriated by this Ordinance represents $454,415 in excess of the revenue
16 relied on by the Board of Estimates in determining the tax levy required to balance the budget for
17 Fiscal Year 2025.
18 This additional revenue could not have been reasonably anticipated when the Ordinance of
19 Estimates for Fiscal Year 2025 was formulated.
20 This appropriation is made necessary by a material change in circumstances since the
21 Ordinance of Estimates for Fiscal Year 2025 was formulated or is for a new program that could
22 not have been reasonably anticipated when that Ordinance of Estimates was formulated.
23 On October 15, 2025, the Board of Estimates recommended this appropriation to the City
24 Council.
dlr25-0463(1)~1st/21Oct25
suppapp3/cc25-0108~1st Reader/rf:ch
Council Bill 25-0108
1 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That
2 $454,415 shall be made available to Liquor License Board – Service 851 (Liquor License
3 Compliance) as a Supplementary General Fund Operating Appropriation for Fiscal Year 2025, to
4 provide funding to balance the Liquor License Board’s Fiscal Year 2025 budget for a deficit
5 caused by office lease costs, use of privately leased vehicles, and overtime.  The source of
6 revenue for this appropriation is General Fund assigned Fund Balance in excess of the amount
7 from this source that was relied on by the Board of Estimates in determining the tax levy required
8 to balance the budget for Fiscal Year 2025.
9 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the date it is
10 enacted.
dlr25-0463(1)~1st/21Oct25
suppapp3/cc25-0108~1st Reader/rf:ch - 2 -
