        CITY  OF  BALTIMORE

BRANDON M.  SCOTT
Mayor



DEPARTMENT  OF  LAW
EBONY M.  THOMPSON , CITY SOLICITOR
100  N.  HOLLIDAY STREET
SUITE 101, CITY HALL
BALTIMORE , MD 21202

April 9, 2025

The Honorable President and Members
  of the Baltimore City Council
Room 409, City Hall
100 N. Holliday Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21202

Re: City Council Bill 25-0052 – City Buildings – Pr ovision of Menstrual
Products

Dear President and Members of the Council:

The Law Department reviewed City Council Bill 25-00 52 for form and legal sufficiency.
The bill is for the purpose of requiring municipal agencies to provide menstrual products free of
charge in public restrooms in buildings owned or le ased by the City and defining certain terms.
The bill would take effect on the 30
th  day after enactment.

Sections (27) and (47) of Article II of the City Ch arter provide that the Mayor and City
Council may “exercise within the limits of Baltimor e City all the power commonly known as the
Police Power to the same extent as the State has or  could exercise that power within the limits of
Baltimore City,” and may “pass any ordinance, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter
or the laws of the State, which it may deem proper in the exercise of any of the powers, either
express or implied, enumerated in this Charter, as well as any ordinance as it may deem proper in
maintaining the peace, good government, health and welfare of Baltimore City.” City Charter, Art.
II, §§ (27), (47). The intent of the bill is to pro vide access to necessary menstrual products which
positively affects the health and welfare of City r esidents. Public schools are already required to
provide menstrual products at no cost in women’s bathrooms. See Md. Code, Educ., § 7-449.

The Law Department notes that the term “contracted organization” under the definition of
“entity” should be separately defined for clarity. Additionally, as written the law does not require
the installation of a menstrual product dispenser i n a restroom that is used only by employees of
the entity and is not accessible by the public. It is unclear whether this result was intended.

The Law Department can approve Council Bill 25-0052 for form and legal sufficiency.

                                                                                Sincerely yours,

                                                                  Michele Toth
               Assistant Solicitor

Page 2 of 2



cc:   Ebony Thompson
Ethan Hasiuk
Ty’lor Schnella
Shamoyia Gardiner
 Hilary Ruley
 Jeff Hochstetler
Ashlea Brown
Desiree Luckey
Ahleah Knapp
