EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0050
(First Reader)

Introduced by: Councilmember Gray
Cosponsored by: Councilmembers Parker, Dorsey, Conway, Torrence, Bullock, Porter,
Blanchard, Jones, Ramos, Middleton, and President Cohen
Introduced and read first time: April 7, 2025
Assigned to: Housing and Economic Development Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Department of
Public Works, Baltimore City Information Technology

A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2 Water Bill – Tenant Right to Review
3 FOR the purpose of requiring the Department of Public Works to provide a specified person with
4 a copy of a certain water or wastewater bill upon request and submission of specified
5 documentation.
6 BY repealing and re-ordaining, with amendments
7 Article 24 - Water
8 Section 2-1
9 Baltimore City Code
10 (Edition 2000)
11 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That the
12 Laws of Baltimore City read as follows:
13 Baltimore City Code
14 Article 24.  Water
15 Subtitle 2.  Bills
16 § 2-1.  Bills.
17 (a) Finance to collect.
18 The bills for water used or work done by the Department of Public Works shall be
19 collected by the Department of Finance.
20 (b) When due.
21 Unless abated under this subtitle, all bills therefor shall be paid within 20 days after they
22 have been issued.
dlr24-0063(1)~1st/08Apr25
Art24/cc25-0050~1st Reader/rf:ch
Council Bill 25-0050
1 (c) Cut-off on default.
2 Subject to the requirements of this article, on default in payment for bills issued under
3 this section, the Department of Public Works may cut off the supply.
4 (d) Copy of bill to tenant-water-utility customer.
5 (1) Any landlord that requires a residential tenant to pay for the costs of water or
6 wastewater services shall:
7 (I) [(1)] include that requirement in a written lease, as provided in City Code
8 Article 13, § 7-3(a-1); and
9 (II) [(2)] either:
10 (A)  [(i)] timely provide the tenant with a copy of the water
11   or wastewater bill; or
12 (B)  [(ii)] timely notify the Department that a copy of the bill should be
13 sent to the tenant.
14 (2) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL TIMELY PROVIDE A COPY OF A WATER OR WASTEWATER
15 BILL TO A TENANT-WATER-UTILITY CUSTOMER WHO:
16 (I) REQUESTS A COPY OF A WATER OR WASTEWATER BILL ISSUED DURING A
17 TIME PERIOD THE TENANT WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYING THE BILL; AND
18 (II) PROVIDES THE DEPARTMENT WITH A COPY OF A WRITTEN LEASE FOR THE
19 PROPERTY, AS PROVIDED IN CITY CODE ARTICLE 13, § 7-3(A-1), THAT
20 INCLUDES A REQUIREMENT THAT THE TENANT PAY FOR THE COSTS OF
21 WATER OR WASTEWATER SERVICES.
22 (e) Tenant-water-utility customer requests.
23 The property owner’s or managing operator’s refusal or failure to participate in a
24 tenant-water-utility-customer’s request to the Department for a discount, bill adjustment,
25 payment plan, or other agency action may not be grounds for the Department to deny the
26 request.
27 (F) RESIDENTIAL-WATER-UTILITY CUSTOMER REQUESTS.
28 THE DEPARTMENT MUST TIMELY PROVIDE A COPY OF A WATER OR WASTEWATER BILL TO
29 A RESIDENTIAL-WATER-UTILITY CUSTOMER WHO:
30 (1) REQUESTS A COPY OF A WATER OR WASTEWATER BILL ISSUED DURING A TIME
31 PERIOD THE CUSTOMER WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYING THE BILL; AND
32 (2) PROVIDES DOCUMENTATION THAT THE CUSTOMER OWNS AND OCCUPIES THE
33 PROPERTY AS THE CUSTOMER’S PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE.
dlr24-0063(1)~1st/08Apr25
Art24/cc25-0050~1st Reader/rf:ch - 2 -
Council Bill 25-0050
1 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the 30th day
2 after the date it is enacted.
dlr24-0063(1)~1st/08Apr25
Art24/cc25-0050~1st Reader/rf:ch - 3 -
