EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0067
(First Reader)

Introduced by: Councilmember Schleifer
Cosponsored by: Councilmembers Dorsey, Conway, Jones, and Glover
Introduced and read first time: May 12, 2025
Assigned to: Committee on Legislative Investigations
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Department of
Human Resources

A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2 Acting City Official – Residency Requirement
3 FOR the purpose of requiring a City employee serving as an acting official to be a City resident
4 under certain circumstances; and defining a certain term.
5 BY repealing and re-ordaining
6 Article 1 - Mayor, City Council, and Municipal Agencies
7 Section 7-10
8 Baltimore City Code
9 (Edition 2000)
10 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That the
11 Laws of Baltimore City read as follows:
12 Baltimore City Code
13 Article 1.  Mayor, City Council, and Municipal Agencies
14 Subtitle 7.  City Officers and Employees
15 § 7-10.  Residency requirements – City officials generally.
16 (a)  Definitions.
17 (1)  In general.
18 In this section, the following terms have the meanings indicated.
19 (2) ACTING CAPACITY.
20 “ACTING CAPACITY” MEANS A SITUATION IN WHICH AN EMPLOYEE TEMPORARILY
21 PERFORMS A JOB OR FUNCTION OTHER THAN THE JOB OR FUNCTION NORMALLY
22 ASSIGNED TO THAT EMPLOYEE.
dlr25-0331(3)~1st/13May25
Art 1/cc25-0067~1st Reader/rf:ch
Council Bill 25-0067
1 (3) [(2)]  Agency.
2 “Agency” means any department, any bureau or division within a department, and any
3 board, commission, authority, council, committee, office, or other unit of City
4 government.
5 (4) [(3)]  Official.
6 “Official” means:
7 (i) the head of an agency who reports directly to the Mayor; and
8 (ii) any at-will supervisory employee who reports directly to the Mayor or to the
9 head of an agency.
10 (b)  Residency requirements.
11 (1) IN GENERAL.
12 Every official:
13 (I) [(1) must] SHALL be a resident and registered voter of Baltimore City at the
14 time of [his or her] THE OFFICIAL’S appointment, except only as otherwise
15 authorized by subsection (c) of this section; and
16 (II) [(2)  must] SHALL remain a resident and registered voter of Baltimore City
17 throughout [his or her] THE OFFICIAL’S entire term of office.
18 (2) INCLUSION.
19 THE RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS ESTABLISHED UNDER THIS SUBSECTION APPLY TO ANY
20 INDIVIDUAL WHO SERVES AS AN OFFICIAL IN AN ACTING CAPACITY FOR 12 MONTHS OR
21 MORE.
22 (c)  Qualified, short-term exception.
23 (1)  In general.
24 (I) OFFICIAL.
25 Subsection (b)(1) of this section does not apply to an official who, before [her or
26 his] THE OFFICIAL’S appointment, signs a declaration of intent to become a City
27 resident and registered voter within 6 months of the effective date of [her or his]
28 THE OFFICIAL’S appointment.
dlr25-0331(3)~1st/13May25
Art 1/cc25-0067~1st Reader/rf:ch - 2 -
Council Bill 25-0067
1 (II) INDIVIDUAL SERVING IN ACTING CAPACITY.
2 SUBSECTION (B)(1) OF THIS SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO AN INDIVIDUAL SERVING
3 IN AN ACTING CAPACITY WHO, WITHIN 12 MONTHS OF THE INDIVIDUAL’S
4 APPOINTMENT, SIGNS A DECLARATION OF INTENT TO BECOME A CITY RESIDENT
5 AND REGISTERED VOTER WITHIN 6 MONTHS OF SIGNING THE DECLARATION OF
6 INTENT.
7 (2)  Termination for failure to timely comply.
8 (I) OFFICIAL.
9 If [the] AN official fails to abide by this declaration of intent within the 6-month
10 period, the official’s appointment is automatically terminated at the end of that
11 period.
12 (II) INDIVIDUAL SERVING IN ACTING CAPACITY.
13 IF AN INDIVIDUAL SERVING IN AN ACTING CAPACITY FAILS TO ABIDE BY THE
14 DECLARATION OF INTENT, THE INDIVIDUAL:
15 (A) SHALL BE TERMINATED; OR
16 (B) DEMOTED TO THE POSITION THE INDIVIDUAL HELD PRIOR TO SERVING
17 IN AN ACTING CAPACITY.
18 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That within 30 days of this Ordinance taking
19 effect, any individual who is not a City resident, is currently serving in an acting capacity, and
20 has done so for 12 months or more:
21 (1) shall sign a declaration of intent to move to the City within 6 months; and
22 (2) upon failure to move to the City within the 6 months following the date of the
23 declaration of intent:
24 (i) shall be demoted to the position the individual held before serving in an acting
25 capacity; or
26 (ii) shall be terminated.
27 SECTION 3.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the 30th day
28 after the date it is enacted.
dlr25-0331(3)~1st/13May25
Art 1/cc25-0067~1st Reader/rf:ch - 3 -
