EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0129
(First Reader)

Introduced by: The Council President
At the request of: The Administration (Department of Finance)
Introduced and read first time: November 24, 2025
Assigned to: Budget and Appropriations Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Department of
Recreation and Parks

A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2  Supplementary State Fund Operating Appropriation –
3 Department of Recreation and Parks (Service 654 - Urban Forestry)  – $415,146
4 FOR the purpose of providing a Supplementary State Fund Operating Appropriation in the
5 amount of $415,146 to the Department of Recreation and Parks – Service 654 (Urban
6 Forestry), to provide funding for 2 positions, a job training program, and a green building
7 class to expand the Camp Small wood-recycling operations in hopes of advancing
8 Baltimore’s sustainability and equity goals; and providing for a special effective date.
9 BY authority of
10 Article VI - Board of Estimates
11 Section 8(b)(2)(ii) and (c)
12 Baltimore City Charter
13 (1996 Edition)
14 Recitals
15 The revenue appropriated by this Ordinance represents a grant from the State Department of
16 Natural Resources’ Community Forest Catalyst Fund in excess of the revenue relied on by the
17 Board of Estimates in determining the tax levy required to balance the budget for Fiscal Year
18 2026.
19 That grant could not have been expected with reasonable certainty when the Ordinance of
20 Estimates for Fiscal Year 2026 was formulated.
21 On July 16, 2025, the Board of Estimates recommended this appropriation to the City
22 Council.
dlr25-0531(1)~1st/25Nov25
suppapp2/cc25-0129~1st Reader/rf:hn
Council Bill 25-0129
1 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That
2 $415,146 shall be made available to the Department of Recreation and Parks – Service 654
3 (Urban Forestry) as a Supplementary State Fund Operating Appropriation for Fiscal Year 2026,
4 to provide funding for 2 positions, a job training program, and a green building class to expand
5 the Camp Small wood-recycling operations in hopes of advancing Baltimore’s sustainability and
6 equity goals.  The source of revenue for this appropriation is the grant from the State Department
7 of Natural Resources’ Community Forest Catalyst Fund in excess of the amount from this source
8 that was relied on by the Board of Estimates in determining the tax levy required to balance the
9 budget for Fiscal Year 2026.
10 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the date it is
11 enacted.
dlr25-0531(1)~1st/25Nov25
suppapp2/cc25-0129~1st Reader/rf:hn - 2 -
