EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0042
(First Reader)

Introduced by: The Council President
At the request of: The Administration (Employees’ Retirement System)
Introduced and read first time: March 24, 2025
Assigned to: Labor and Workforce Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Employees’ and
Elected Officials Retirement System

A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2 Retirement Savings Plan – Clarifying Amendment
3 FOR the purpose of clarifying the definition of “service” for the members of the Retirement
4 Savings Plan; and providing for a special effective date.
5 BY repealing and re-ordaining, with amendments
6 Article 22A - Retirement Savings Plan
7 Section 4-1
8 Baltimore City Code
9 (Edition 2000)
10 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That the
11 Laws of Baltimore City read as follows:
12 Baltimore City Code
13 Article 22A.  Retirement Savings Plan
14 Subtitle 4.  Service
15 § 4-1.  “Service” defined.
16 (a)  In general.
17 Except as otherwise provided in this section, “service” means the sum of each period of a
18 member’s employment with a participating employer.
19 (b)  Exclusions.
20 Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, “service” does not include any period
21 of employment:
dlr24-1552(1)~1st/25Mar25
Art22A/cc25-0042~1st Reader/EB:bg:ad
Council Bill 25-0042
1 (1) that has been credited as service under any other City retirement plan for
2 calculating the amount of a retirement benefit or a deferred vested retirement
3 benefit; or
4 (2) during which the member was not [on the active payroll of] RECEIVING EARNABLE
5 COMPENSATION FOR ANY PORTION OF A PAY PERIOD FROM the participating
6 employer.
7 (c)  Exceptions.
8 The exclusions of subsection (b) of this section do not apply to any period of employment
9 credited to a hybrid member for service as a Class D member of the Employees’
10 Retirement System.
11 (d)  Transfers of service.
12 If a member transfers service to any other City retirement plan, that transferred service
13 may not be counted to determine whether the member is vested in his or her employer
14 contribution sub-account.
15 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the date it is
16 enacted.
dlr24-1552(1)~1st/25Mar25
Art22A/cc25-0042~1st Reader/EB:bg:ad - 2 -
