EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0119
(First Reader)

Introduced by: The Council President
At the request of: The Administration (Department of Transportation)
Introduced and read first time: November 10, 2025
Assigned to: Land Use and Transportation Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Department of
Transportation, Office of Equity and Civil Rights, Mayor’s Office of Small and Minority
Business Advocacy and Development
A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2  Footways – Sidewalks – Accessibility
3 FOR the purpose of requiring a permit applicant to demonstrate that sidewalks adjoining a subject
4 property comply with certain accessibility standards; establishing sidewalk accessibility
5 standards; obligating a real property owner to construct, maintain, and repair accessible
6 sidewalks; amending the minimum permitted sidewalk width in the City; establishing that a
7 real property owner shall be responsible for inspection and repair of sidewalks and curb
8 ramps to meet accessibility standards at or before certain trigger events; establishing a new
9 authority under which the Director of Transportation may require repair or replacement of a
10 sidewalk; amending fines for noncompliance; defining certain terms; and generally relating to
11 the construction and maintenance of accessible sidewalks in the City.
12 BY adding
13 Article - Building, Fire, and Related Codes
14 Sections 2-103 (IBC § 105.1.6) and 7-102 (IPMC §§ 304.22.1 and 304.22.2)
15 Baltimore City Revised Code
16 (2024 Edition)
17 BY repealing and re-ordaining, with amendments
18 Article 1 - Mayor, City Council, and Municipal Agencies
19 Section 40-14(e)(4b)
20 Baltimore City Code
21 (Edition 2000)
22 BY repealing and re-ordaining, with amendments
23 Article 26 - Surveys, Streets, and Highways
24 Sections 9-1, 9-2(a) and (c), and 10-1
25 Baltimore City Code
26 (Edition 2000)
dlr25-0430(7)~1st/12Nov25
BFR;1;26/cc25-0119~1st Reader/bg:hn
Council Bill 25-0119
1 BY adding
2 Article 26 - Surveys, Streets, and Highways
3 Section 9-4
4 Baltimore City Code
5 (Edition 2000)
6 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That the
7 Laws of Baltimore City read as follows:
8 Baltimore City Revised Code
9 Article – Building, Fire, and Related Codes
10 Part II.  International Building Code
11 § 2-103.  City modifications.
12 The additions, deletions, amendments, and other modifications adopted by the City are as
13 follows:
14 Chapter 1.  Scope and Administration
15 Section 105.  Permits
16 A permit issued by the Building Official is required before any person may do any of the
17 following work:
18 105.1 Required.
19 105.1.6  ACCESSIBLE SIDEWALKS.  A PERSON APPLYING FOR A PERMIT, AS REQUIRED
20 UNDER THIS SECTION, SHALL INCLUDE IN THEIR APPLICATION:
21 1. DOCUMENTATION IN THE FORM REQUIRED BY THE BUILDING OFFICIAL EVIDENCING
22 THAT ALL SIDEWALKS ADJOINING THE SUBJECT PROPERTY COMPLY WITH THE
23 ACCESSIBILITY REQUIREMENT AS STATED IN § 304.22 {“SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS,
24 ETC.”} OF THE BALTIMORE CITY PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; OR
25 2. ALL INFORMATION AND MATERIALS REQUIRED UNDER § 105.3 {“APPLICATION FOR
26 PERMIT”} OF THIS BUILDING CODE TO REPAIR AND BUILD ALL SIDEWALKS
27 ADJOINING THE SUBJECT PROPERTY TO COMPLY WITH THE ACCESSIBILITY
28 REQUIREMENT AS STATED IN § 304.22 {“SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS, ETC.”} OF THE
29 BALTIMORE CITY PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
30 Part VII. International Property Maintenance Code
31 § 7-102. City modifications.
32 The additions, deletions, amendments, and other modifications adopted by the City are as
33 follows:
dlr25-0430(7)~1st/12Nov25
BFR;1;26/cc25-0119~1st Reader/bg:hn - 2 -
Council Bill 25-0119
1 Chapter 3. General Requirements
2 Section 304. Repair and Maintenance of Structures
3 304.22. Sidewalks, driveways, etc.
4 304.22.1  GENERAL.  All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces, and
5 similar areas must be kept in good repair and free from hazardous conditions.
6 304.22.2 ACCESSIBLE SIDEWALKS.  ALL SIDEWALKS ADJOINING A PROPERTY SHALL
7 COMPLY WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT AND THE DEPARTMENT OF
8 TRANSPORTATION’S BOOK OF STANDARDS.
9 Article 26.  Surveys, Streets, and Highways
10 Subtitle 9.  Footways - In general
11 § 9-1.  General standards.
12 (a) Width and location.
13 (1) Every footway installed along any paved or unpaved street, lane, or alley of the City
14 must be of the width and in the location that the Director of Transportation directs in
15 each instance.  In no event, however, may the width be less than [4] 5 feet.
16 (2) Wherever required by the Director of Transportation, the streets, lanes, and alleys of
17 the City must be paved to the building line, to the full width of the sidewalk
18 reservation.
19 (b) Penalties.
20 If the proprietor of any lot refuses or neglects to comply with this section, the owner of
21 the lot is subject to a fine of [$10] $100 for each day the neglect or refusal continues, to
22 be recovered as other fines and forfeitures are recoverable.
23 § 9-2.  Temporary footway required when [digging up] WORK DISTURBS sidewalk.
24 (a) In general.
25 [(1) Whenever any sidewalk is dug or torn up by any person or corporation, that person or
26  corporation must construct a substantial footway over the sidewalk so dug or torn
27  up.]
28 (1) ANY PERSON THAT DIGS UP, TEARS UP, OR OTHERWISE OBSTRUCTS A SIDEWALK TO
29 MAKE IT UNUSABLE SHALL CONSTRUCT A TEMPORARY FOOTWAY OVER OR ADJACENT
30 TO THE ORIGINAL SIDEWALK.
dlr25-0430(7)~1st/12Nov25
BFR;1;26/cc25-0119~1st Reader/bg:hn - 3 -
Council Bill 25-0119
1 (2) The [footway must:] PERSON SHALL:
2 (i) [be constructed] COMPLETE CONSTRUCTION OF A TEMPORARY FOOTWAY within
3 2 days from the [start of the digging or tearing up;] DATE THAT THE PERSON
4 DIGS UP, TEARS UP, OR OTHERWISE OBSTRUCTS THE SIDEWALK;
5 (ii) [be at least 3feet wide, with proper guards on the side for the use of the public;
6 and] DESIGN AND BUILD THE TEMPORARY FOOTWAY IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE
7 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION’S BOOK OF STANDARDS; AND
8 (iii) [be maintained] MAINTAIN THE TEMPORARY FOOTWAY until the sidewalk is
9  restored and repaved in a proper manner.
10 (c) Penalties.
11 Every person or corporation who refuses or neglects to comply with this section is liable
12 to a penalty of [$10] $100 for each day that passes without a footway being in place as
13 required by this section.
14 § 9-4.  FOOTWAY INSPECTION, REPLACEMENT, AND COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATES.
15 (A) DEFINITIONS.
16 (1) IN GENERAL.
17 IN THIS SECTION, THE FOLLOWING TERMS HAVE THE MEANINGS INDICATED.
18 (2) ACCESSIBLE SIDEWALK.
19 “ACCESSIBLE SIDEWALK” MEANS A SIDEWALK THAT IS DESIGNED AND CONSTRUCTED
20 TO MEET OR EXCEED THE ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS SET FORTH IN § 304.22.2
21 {“ACCESSIBLE SIDEWALKS”} OF THE BALTIMORE CITY BUILDING CODE.
22 (3) CURB.
23 “CURB” MEANS THE LATERAL BOUNDARY OF A ROADWAY, WHETHER THE BOUNDARY
24 IS MARKED BY A CURB STONE OR NOT.
25 (4) CURB RAMP.
26 “CURB RAMP” MEANS A SHORT RAMP CUTTING THROUGH OR BUILT UP TO THE CURB
27 THAT IS DESIGNED TO PROVIDE A SMOOTH AND ACCESSIBLE TRANSITION BETWEEN THE
28 SIDEWALK AND THE ADJOINING ROADWAY, ALLEY, OR CROSSWALK.
29 (5) FOOTWAY.
30 “FOOTWAY” MEANS THAT SECTION BEYOND THE VEHICULAR PATH ALONG A PAVED OR
31 UNPAVED ROADWAY THAT IS RESERVED FOR AND NORMALLY USED BY PEDESTRIANS.
dlr25-0430(7)~1st/12Nov25
BFR;1;26/cc25-0119~1st Reader/bg:hn - 4 -
Council Bill 25-0119
1 (6) SIDEWALK.
2 “SIDEWALK” MEANS ANY PAVED FOOTWAY.
3 (7) SUBSTANTIAL RENOVATION.
4 “SUBSTANTIAL RENOVATION” MEANS ANY CONSTRUCTION, ALTERATION, REPAIR, OR
5 IMPROVEMENT TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE OR PORTION THEREOF, THE COST OF WHICH
6 EQUALS OR EXCEEDS 50% OF THE STRUCTURE’S CURRENT ASSESSED VALUE, OR THAT
7 AFFECTS MORE THAN 50% OF THE BUILDING’S GROSS FLOOR AREA.
8 (8) TRANSFER OF TITLE.
9 “TRANSFER OF TITLE” MEANS THE SALE OR TRANSFER OF AN ENTIRE REAL PROPERTY
10 ESTATE OR THE FEE INTEREST IN THAT REAL PROPERTY.
11 (B) OBLIGATION OF PROPERTY OWNER.
12 (1) EVENT TRIGGERS.
13 A PROPERTY OWNER SHALL PERFORM THE OBLIGATIONS OF PARAGRAPH (2) OF THIS
14 SUBSECTION IN THE FOLLOWING CIRCUMSTANCES:
15 (I) AS A PRECONDITION TO THE TRANSFER OF TITLE;
16 (II) WHENEVER A PROPERTY OWNER APPLIES FOR ANY PERMIT OR OTHER APPROVAL
17 NEEDED FOR CONSTRUCTION OR SUBSTANTIAL RENOVATION OF ANY PORTION
18 OF A STRUCTURE OR LOT ADJACENT TO, ABUTTING, OR FRONTING ANY PORTION
19 OF A SIDEWALK AREA; OR
20 (III) WHEN A PROPERTY OWNER BECOMES AWARE OF AN UNSAFE SIDEWALK
21  CONDITION, OR WHEN THE PROPERTY OWNER IS NOTIFIED BY THE CITY OF AN
22  UNSAFE SIDEWALK CONDITION UNDER SUBTITLE 10 {“FOOTWAYS - ALONG
23  PAVED STREETS”} OF THIS ARTICLE.
24 (2) OBLIGATIONS.
25 A PROPERTY OWNER SHALL:
26 (I) INSPECT SIDEWALKS AND CURB RAMPS;
27
28 (II) PERFORM ALL NECESSARY REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT WORK TO COMPLY WITH
29 § 304.22 {“SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS, ETC.”} OF THE BALTIMORE CITY
30 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; AND
31 (III)  FILE WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION A COMPLIANCE
32  CERTIFICATE.
dlr25-0430(7)~1st/12Nov25
BFR;1;26/cc25-0119~1st Reader/bg:hn - 5 -
Council Bill 25-0119
1 (C) INSPECTIONS.
2 (1) IN GENERAL.
3 A SELF-CERTIFICATION INSPECTION SHALL BE CONDUCTED BY A CONTRACTOR WHO
4 HOLDS A VALID LICENSE IN THE STATE AND CITY.
5 (2) REPORTING.
6 THE PROPERTY OWNER SHALL SUBMIT TO THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION A
7 COMPLETE COPY OF THE INSPECTION REPORT AND WRITTEN CONFIRMATION BY THE
8 INSPECTOR THAT ANY REPAIRS OR REPLACEMENTS RECOMMENDED BY THE INSPECTOR
9 HAVE BEEN COMPLETED.
10 (D) COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.
11 THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION MAY ISSUE A COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE TO A
12 PROPERTY OWNER AFTER RECEIPT OF A SELF-CERTIFICATION INSPECTION REPORT AND
13 CONFIRMATION OF COMPLETED REPAIRS OR REPLACEMENT AS REQUIRED BY
14 SUBSECTION (C) OF THIS SECTION.
15 (E) RANDOM INSPECTION.
16 WITHIN 5 YEARS OF ISSUANCE OF A COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE, A PROPERTY OWNER MAY
17 BE SUBJECT TO RANDOM INSPECTION BY THE CITY.
18 (F) PENALTY.
19 A PROPERTY OWNER WHO FALSIFIES A SELF-CERTIFICATION INSPECTION REPORT AND HAS
20 NOT PERFORMED ALL NECESSARY SIDEWALK AND CURB RAMP REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT
21 SHALL BE SUBJECT TO SPECIFIED CIVIL PENALTIES AND LIENS.
22 Subtitle 10.  Footways - Along Paved Streets
23 § 10-1.  Notice to property owners.
24 (a) Scope.
25 This section applies whenever the Director of Transportation:
26 (1) finds that any footway, in whole or in part, of any paved street, lane, or alley of
27 the City:
28 (i) is not properly graded and paved;
29 (ii) is in bad repair;
30 (iii) is otherwise in a defective condition; [or]
dlr25-0430(7)~1st/12Nov25
BFR;1;26/cc25-0119~1st Reader/bg:hn - 6 -
Council Bill 25-0119
1 (IV) IS VIOLATIVE OF THE REQUIREMENTS UNDER § 304.22 {“SIDEWALKS,
2  DRIVEWAYS, ETC.”} OF THE BALTIMORE CITY PROPERTY
3  MAINTENANCE CODE, INCLUDING THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES
4 ACT; OR
5 (V) [(iv)] is inconsistent with a streetscape plan approved in accordance with
6  Subtitle 10A of this article; and
7 (2) determines, in [his or her] THEIR judgment, that the footway:
8 (i) needs grading, paving, repaving, or repairing; or
9 (ii) otherwise needs to be brought into compliance with the approved
10 streetscape plan.
11 Article 1.  Mayor, City Council, and Municipal Agencies
12 Subtitle 40.  Environmental Control Board
13 § 40-14.  Violations to which subtitle applies.
14 (e) Provisions and penalties enumerated.
15 (4b)  Article 26. Surveys, Streets, and Highways.
16 Subtitle 6.  Building Address Numbers $25
17 SUBTITLE 9.  FOOTWAYS - IN GENERAL
18 § 9-2. TEMPORARY FOOTWAY REQUIRED WHEN
19 WORK DISTURBS SIDEWALK $100
20 § 9-4.  FOOTWAY INSPECTION, REPLACEMENT, AND
21 COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATES $100
22 Subtitle 23.  Underground Conduit System $1,000
23 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the 30th day
24 after the date it is enacted.
dlr25-0430(7)~1st/12Nov25
BFR;1;26/cc25-0119~1st Reader/bg:hn - 7 -
