EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0138
(First Reader)

Introduced by: The Council President
Cosponosred by: Councilmembers Dorsey, Gray, and Blanchard
At the request of: The Administration (Department of Finance)
Introduced and read first time: December 4, 2025
Assigned to: Budget and Appropriations Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Department of
Transportation

A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2 Excise Tax Increase – Passenger-for-Hire Services
3 FOR the purpose of increasing the amount of tax imposed per trip for passenger-for-hire services;
4 and providing for a special effective date.
5 BY repealing and re-ordaining, with amendments,
6 Article 28 - Taxes
7 Section 24-3
8 Baltimore City Code
9 (Edition 2000)
10 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That the
11 Laws of Baltimore City read as follows:
12 Baltimore City Code
13 Article 28.  Taxes
14 Subtitle 24.  Passenger-for-Hire Services
15 § 24-3.  Amount of tax.
16 The amount of the tax imposed is [25¢] 38¢ for each trip:
17 (1) between points within Baltimore City; or
18 (2) from a point within Baltimore City to a point outside Baltimore City.
19 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect 120 days after
20 the date of enactment.
dlr25-0281(2)~1st/05Dec25
Art28/cc25-0138~1st Reader/rf:hn
