EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0043
(First Reader)

Introduced by: The Council President
At the request of: The Administration (Employees’ Retirement System)
Introduced and read first time: March 24, 2025
Assigned to: Labor and Workforce Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Employees’
Retirement System
A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2 Employees’ Retirement System – Class C – Filing Period – Amendment
3 FOR the purpose of increasing the time period required between filing for and commencing
4 receipt of service retirement benefits by Class C members; and providing for a special
5 effective date.
6 BY repealing and re-ordaining, with amendments
7 Article 22 - Retirement Systems
8 Section 9(d-2)(2)
9 Baltimore City Code
10 (Edition 2000)
11 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That the
12 Laws of Baltimore City read as follows:
13 Baltimore City Code
14 Article 22.  Retirement Systems
15 Employees’ Retirement System
16 § 9.  Class C membership.
17 (d-2)  Service retirement benefits.
18 . . .
19 (2)  Application and filing period.
20 A Class C member in service may retire under subsection (e), (f), or (l) of this section
21 if:
22 (i) the member files the appropriate application with the Board of Trustees, in the
23 form and containing the information that the Board requires;
dlr24-1551(1)~1st/25Mar25
art22/cc25-0043~1st Reader/EB:bg:ch
Council Bill 25-0043
1 (ii) the member specifies on the form the date on which the member desires his or
2 her benefits to commence;
3 (iii) the date so specified is not less than [30] 60 days nor more than 90 days after
4 the date of filing the application; and
5 (iv) as of the date so specified, the member will have complied with the applicable
6 conditions of the retirement benefit applied for.
7 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the date it is
8 enacted.
dlr24-1551(1)~1st/25Mar25
art22/cc25-0043~1st Reader/EB:bg:ch - 2 -
