EXPLANATION: CAPITALS indicate matter added to existing law.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
CITY OF BALTIMORE
COUNCIL BILL 25-0096
(First Reader)

Introduced by:  Councilmember Gray
Cosponosred by: Councilmembers Paker, Dorsey, Conway, Torrence, Bullock, Porter, Blanchard,
and Ramos
Introduced and read first time: September 15, 2025
Assigned to: Public Health and Environment Committee
REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES: City Solicitor, Department of Finance, Parking
Authority of Baltimore City, Department of Transportation, Office of Equity and Civil Rights
A BILL ENTITLED
1 AN ORDINANCE concerning
2 Parking for Disabled Individuals and Helpers – Modifications
3 FOR the purpose of removing certain permit renewal requirements for an individual with a
4 disability; allowing a certain individual to submit notice to the Department of Transportation
5 that a reserved parking permit is no longer needed; removing certain obsolete language; and
6 generally relating to parking for disabled persons and helpers.
7 BY repealing and re-ordaining, with amendments,
8 Article 31 - Transit and Traffic
9 Sections 9-1 to 9-3, 9-11, and 9-12
10 Baltimore City Code
11 (Edition 2000)
12 BY repealing and re-ordaining, without amendments,
13 Article 31 - Transit and Traffic
14 Sections 9-4, and 9-13 to 9-15
15 Baltimore City Code
16 (Edition 2000)
17 SECTION 1.  BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE, That the
18 Laws of Baltimore City read as follows:
dlr25-0354(2)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0096~1st Reader/rf:ad
Council Bill 25-0096
1 Baltimore City Code
2 Article 31.  Transit and Traffic
3 Subtitle 9.  Parking for Disabled [Persons] INDIVIDUALS and Helpers
4 Part I.  Reserved Parking for Disabled [Persons] INDIVIDUALS
5 § 9-1.  Criteria for obtaining.
6 (a)  In general.
7 A disabled [person] INDIVIDUAL may be eligible for a reserved parking space if the person
8 meets the following criteria:
9 (1) the disability of the [applicant must be] INDIVIDUAL IS permanent or of a nature
10 expected to adversely affect the [applicant] INDIVIDUAL for at least 1 year;
11 (2) the [applicant must be] INDIVIDUAL IS unable to use public transportation, leaving
12 a personal vehicle as the only means of transportation;
13 (3) the [applicant must be] INDIVIDUAL IS the sole operator of the vehicle or, if the
14 [applicant] INDIVIDUAL is dependent upon a non-handicapped driver for
15 transportation, the driver must reside in the same [household;] DWELLING;
16 (4) A parking space [must be] IS available that is not restricted by other parking
17 regulations;
18 (5) off-street parking is not available, such as a driveway, garage, or parking pad, on
19 the [applicant’s] INDIVIDUAL’S property; and
20 (6) the [applicant] INDIVIDUAL submits an application in the form that the Director of
21 Transportation requires.
22 (b)  Required [statements.] STATEMENT.
23 [(1)]  The application shall be accompanied [by:]
24 [(i)] BY a physician’s statement, dated within the previous 6 months, describing
25 the nature and anticipated duration of the disability and the disability’s effect
26 on the mobility of the [applicant; and] INDIVIDUAL.
27 [(ii)  signed statements approving the designation of reserved parking for the
28   applicant from the 2 abutting property owners and from 4 additional property
29   owners in the block.]
30 [(2)  The Director may waive the requirements of paragraph (1)(ii) of this subsection if:]
31 [(i)  the Director determines that there are not enough properties in the block to
32  supply the necessary signatures; or]
dlr25-0354(2)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0096~1st Reader/rf:ad - 2 -
Council Bill 25-0096
1 [(ii)  the Director, in consultation with the Director of the Community Relations
2   Commission, determines that the applicant meets all other criteria for
3   obtaining a reserved parking space.]
§ 9-2.  Procedure.4
5 (a)  Application to Department.
6 (1) Any [person] INDIVIDUAL desiring a reserved parking space and meeting the criteria
7 of § 9-1 of this subtitle may submit an application for a reserved parking permit to the
8 Department of Transportation.
9 (2) The Department shall review each application.
10 (b)  Approvals.
11 [(1)  If a determination is made] IF THE DEPARTMENT REVIEWS AN APPLICATION AND
12 DETERMINES that the applicant meets the criteria for a RESERVED PARKING space, [then:]
13 THEN THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ISSUE A PERMIT TO THE APPLICANT.
14 [(1) a temporary permit shall be issued; and]
15 [(2) an administrative regulation describing the location of the reserved space shall be
16 submitted to the City Council and shall be processed as described in § 2-6 of this
17 article.]
18 (c)  Denials.
19 (1) If the Department determines that the applicant does not meet the criteria for a
20 reserved parking space, the Department shall so notify the applicant in writing stating
21 the reason for the denial of space.
22 (2) If the Department denies the permit, the applicant may appeal the decision to the
23 [Director. The Director] DIRECTOR, WHO shall review the case and may, in the
24 Director’s discretion, reverse the denial and grant a temporary permit.
§ 9-3.  Use, renewal, and termination.25
26 (a)  Permit to be displayed.
27 The permit [must] SHALL be clearly displayed whenever the vehicle is parked in the
28 reserved parking space.
29 (b) Validation and renewal.
30 [Reserved parking permits must be:]
31 [(1) validated upon the expiration of 6 months from their date of issue; and]
32 [(2) renewed each year in the manner and form determined by the Department.]
dlr25-0354(2)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0096~1st Reader/rf:ad - 3 -
Council Bill 25-0096
1 (1) EVERY 5 YEARS, THE DEPARTMENT SHALL SEND A PERMIT HOLDER A DOCUMENT THAT
2 AFFIRMS THE PERMIT HOLDER STILL REQUIRES THE USE OF THE PERMIT.
3 (2) UPON RECEIPT OF THE DOCUMENT UNDER THIS SUBSECTION, THE PERMIT HOLDER
4 SHALL SIGN AND RETURN THE DOCUMENT TO THE DEPARTMENT IF THE PERMIT
5 HOLDER STILL REQUIRES USE OF THE PERMIT.
6 (c)  Notice when no longer needed.
7 (1) NOTICE FROM PERMIT HOLDER OR HEIRS.
8 The holder of a reserved parking permit or the holder’s heirs shall notify the
9 Department when a reserved parking space is [not] NO longer needed.
10 (2) NOTICE FROM OTHER PARTY.
11 ANY PERSON WHO REASONABLY BELIEVES THAT A PERMIT HOLDER HAS DIED, MOVED,
12 OR OTHERWISE NO LONGER REQUIRES A RESERVED PARKING PERMIT MAY SUBMIT A
13 REQUEST TO THE DEPARTMENT THAT THE DEPARTMENT:
14 (I) REVIEW THE PERMIT; AND
15 (II) IF NECESSARY, REQUIRE THE PERMIT HOLDER TO RESUBMIT THE
16 DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED BY § 9-1 OF THIS SUBTITLE.
17 (d)  Revocation.
18 [A reserved parking permit shall be revoked if:] THE DEPARTMENT SHALL REVOKE A
19 RESERVED PARKING PERMIT IF:
20 (1) false statements are made in the application;
21 (2) the parking permit is misused;
22 (3) new parking regulations are imposed which prohibit parking at any time; OR
23 [(4)  the City Council rescinds an administrative regulation pursuant to § 2-6 of this
24   article; or]
25 (4) [(5)]  the disabled [person] INDIVIDUAL dies, moves from the premises, or no
26 longer needs the space.
27 (E) BIANNUAL NOTICE.
28 THE DEPARTMENT SHALL BIANNUALLY SEND A PERMIT HOLDER NOTICE THAT:
29 (1) CONFIRMS THE INDIVIDUAL HAS AN ACTIVE PERMIT;
30 (2) LISTS THE PERMIT HOLDER’S CONTACT INFORMATION AS IT APPEARS IN THE
31 DEPARTMENT’S RECORDS; AND
dlr25-0354(2)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0096~1st Reader/rf:ad - 4 -
Council Bill 25-0096
1 (3) INCLUDES INSTRUCTIONS FOR HOW A PERMIT HOLDER MAY UPDATE THEIR
2 CONTACT INFORMATION WITH THE DEPARTMENT.
§ 9-4.  Forms, rules, and regulations; fees.3
4 (a)  Forms, rules, and regulations.
5 Subject to Title 4 {“Administrative Procedure Act – Regulations”} of the City General
6 Provisions Article, the Director shall develop forms and adopt rules and regulations to
7 carry out this Part 1.
8 (b)  Fees.
9 (1) [The] SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF ESTIMATES, THE Director may set
10 and impose reasonable application and annual permit fees to help defray the cost of
11 manufacturing, installing, and removing signs and otherwise administering this Part 1.
12 (2) The fees set under this subsection do not apply to and may not be imposed if the
13 [applicant-permittee’s] DISABLED INDIVIDUAL’S disability is, as shown on the
14 physician’s statement, permanent.
§§ 9-5 to 9-10.  {Reserved}15
16 Part II.  Reserved Parking for Helpers
17 § 9-11.  “Disabled [person”] INDIVIDUAL defined.
18 In this Part, “disabled [person”] INDIVIDUAL means a person who meets the physical criteria
19 for obtaining a reserved parking space for a disabled [person.] INDIVIDUAL UNDER § 9-1 OF
20 THIS SUBTITLE.
§ 9-12.  Criteria and procedure for obtaining.21
22 (a)  In general.
23 [A person] AN INDIVIDUAL who regularly renders assistance to a disabled [person]
24 INDIVIDUAL may apply to the Department of Transportation for a permit for 1 reserved
25 parking space at the disabled [person’s] INDIVIDUAL’S home.
26 (b)  Application.
27 (1) The application shall be made jointly by the disabled [person] INDIVIDUAL and the
28 disabled [person’s] INDIVIDUAL’S designated helper.
dlr25-0354(2)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0096~1st Reader/rf:ad - 5 -
Council Bill 25-0096
1 (2) The application shall be in the form that the Director requires and shall be
2 accompanied [by:] BY
3 [(i)]  a physician’s statement, dated within the previous 6 months, describing the
4 nature and anticipated duration of the disabled [person’s] INDIVIDUAL’S
5 disability and the disability’s effect on the disabled [person’s mobility; and]
6 INDIVIDUAL’S MOBILITY.
7 [(ii)  signed statements approving the designation of reserved parking for the
8   applicant from the 2 abutting property owners and from 4 additional property
9   owners in the block.]
10 [(3)  The Director may waive the requirements of paragraph (2)(ii) of this subsection if
11   the Director determines that there are not enough properties in the block to supply
12   the necessary signatures.]
13 (c)  Review.
14 The Department shall review each application to determine that:
15 (1) suitable off-street parking, such as a driveway, garage, or parking pad, is not
16 available;
17 (2) suitable parking space not restricted by other parking regulations is available; and
18 (3) the disabled [person] INDIVIDUAL meets the criteria for a reserved parking space.
§ 9-13.  Assignment of space; restrictions.19
20 (a)  Assignment.
21 On acceptance of the application, the Director shall designate and mark 1 space at a
22 location to be determined by the Director.
23 (b)  Restrictions.
24 (1) The Director may specify the days, times, location, and other restrictions the Director
25 considers necessary in order to provide adequate parking in the neighborhood.
26 (2) Any reserved parking space may be designated by the Director for use by more than 1
27 helper.
§ 9-14.  Annual permit.28
29 (a)  Issuance.
30 The Director shall issue to the designated helper a permit which shall be displayed in the
31 manner prescribed by the Director.
dlr25-0354(2)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0096~1st Reader/rf:ad - 6 -
Council Bill 25-0096
1 (b)  Renewal.
2 Permits shall be renewed each year in the manner and form determined by the Director.
§ 9-15.  Forms, rules, and regulations; fees.3
4 (a)  Forms, rules, and regulations.
5 Subject to Title 4 {“Administrative Procedure Act – Regulations”} of the City General
6 Provisions Article, the Director may develop forms and adopt rules and regulations to
7 carry out this Part 2.
8 (b)  Fees.
9 (1) The Director may set and impose reasonable application and annual permit fees to
10 help defray the cost of manufacturing, installing, and removing signs and otherwise
11 administering this Part 2.
12 (2) The fees set under this subsection do not apply to and may not be imposed if the
13 disability of the [person] INDIVIDUAL being assisted is, as shown on the physician’s
14 statement, permanent.
§§ 9-16 to 9-20.  {Reserved}15
16 SECTION 2.  AND BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, That this Ordinance takes effect on the 30th day
17 after the date it is enacted.
dlr25-0354(2)~1st/16Sep25
Art31/cc25-0096~1st Reader/rf:ad - 7 -
